spending in the AI related names is now
eating up a lot of the free cash flow.
>> Investors are so bullish on profit
expectations. They just want capex to
slow down a bit.
>> There will be winners and losers like
there are. But the whole idea of a whole
industry going away is crazy. There's
just a tremendous amount of dissonance
right now.
>> Tech deserves the benefit of the doubt.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, tech stocks looking for a
firmer footing. Open AAI is closing in
on finalizing a 100 billion funding
round as the latest minutes are
revealing a hawkish shift at the Federal
Reserve. and crude is holding above 70
following the biggest one-day gain since
October with the Middle East very much
on edge.
>> Don't have a decision yet from the
president on what he's going to do next
when it comes to the Middle East. When
it comes to Iran, he met with his
national security team yesterday. No
final decision. He still has the
diplomatic avenue he can take. But
Jonathan, forget the rhetoric, forget
the statements that are coming out of
the Middle East and White House. Look at
the hardware right now that's developing
in the region. The fighter jets, the
second US aircraft carrier headed to the
region. It's reminiscent of 2003 when
the United States was about to invade
Iraq. And if you look at the hardware,
clearly the president, if he makes a
decision in the next few days, the
hardware is in place for them to carry
out a potential strike on Iran.
>> The president has proven time and time
again that he is not afraid of engaging.
However, he has a certain style.
Targeted, contained, high impact. See,
Venezuela strikes in the past in the
Middle East. This would be different,
would it not?
>> This would be very different. When it
came to Venezuela, there was one target
and that was Nicholas Maduro and it was
to extract him and get him out. This
potentially, and I've been calling
individuals as well yesterday given the
fact that after that Axios report that
the president was really weighing this
option, this could be weeks long, a
monthsl long campaign, which is why you
see crude prices higher as well because
what does Iran do? What can they do to
fight back? Part of that could be
closing the straight of Hermoose and
really choking off a huge port when it
comes to crude oil going through in and
out of the region.
>> Brent crude up by more than 5% in two
days. Brent crude above 71 this morning,
up another 1 percentage point so far.
Later on this morning, the data point of
today might not be jobless claims. It
may well be Walmart and those numbers
that drop anywhere between now and the
next 90 minutes or so. One sell, three
holds, and 47 buys. The analyst
community is super bullish on this name
and that's been trading at all-time
highs until recently. Could it be the
data point of this morning for
economists worldwide?
>> I think it might be, especially when you
think about the fact that Walmart, I was
listening to Oliver Chen with you and
Lisa yesterday. He was talking about the
fact that Walmart has the convenience.
They are doing so well when it comes to
groceries. We see consumers really have
this idea of they're struggling with
affordability. They are going to
Walmart. At the same time, Walmart has
become for some an AI trade, a tech
trade, which is why they're in this
great position. But how high is the bar?
And one thing Oliver Chen yesterday, he
said when it comes to Walmart, they do
have this potential when they want to
have a conservative guidance. If they
have a conservative guidance and the
street is looking for much more, could
that potentially hurt them?
>> Walmart in the pre-market negative at
the moment, just a bit softer. We're
down by 1.4%. We'll look out for those
headlines when they drop later on this
morning. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Max Kner of HSBC with
stocks looking for a fourth day of
gains. Matthew Mish of UBS joins us
expecting big tech to ramp up record
spending and Yolena Sheta of the
Conference Board with the consumer under
pressure. We begin this hour with stocks
inching lower following the biggest
one-day gain in almost two weeks. Max
Kenna of HSBC writing, "The recent
rotation within US equities isn't the
start of a broad riskoff move. Instead,
a multi-asset and equity models have
turned decisively bullish." Max joins us
now for more. Max, welcome. Let's get
into that. What's guiding the judgment
between one versus the other for you?
>> Yeah, look, actually, in terms of the
data, the one main data point that we've
seen in the last uh six, seven weeks,
what's changed is that that tiny bit of
a sell signal that we had in our
positioning framework at the start of
this year, that has now all but
disappeared. So, clearly positioning and
also short-term sentiment, short-term
hedging demand is much much higher.
sentiment overall all the price based
the options based uh uh positioning
stuff and positioning proxies are much
much cleaner now even on the systematic
side when we look at the likes of CTAs
momentum signals risk parity vault
target strategies all of those have now
gone from around 80th percentile just a
couple of weeks ago to below 50th
percentile so already much much cleaner
positioning that I think should
constrain from here the downside and any
kind of positive news around AI you guys
would just talk about another funding
round for open AI. Any kind of positive
news I think does call then into
question that rotation away from the AI
names, away from the magnificent 7, the
hyperscalers in the last two weeks.
>> Max, last time I looked, we were still
within 2% of all-time highs on the S&P
500. We haven't had that index level
stress despite the vicious rotation
beneath the surface. Do you think we can
see a prolonged rotation through the
year ahead without seeing some index
level issues on the S&P?
Yeah, you can actually when we look at
uh what we did for example two weeks ago
was looking at uh the biggest rotation
out of high beta names out of high beta
momentum names for example uh what you
are seeing is that that seldom has an
effect on the overall index level not
just in equities but actually across the
asset class spectrum when you look at
treasury yields when you look at the
broader dollar or high beta effects you
look at investment grade or high yield
credit spreads even emerging markets
actually even on the day of the worst
unwinding s of those high beta stocks,
those big big rotations, it rarely ever
really has an effect. So the hit ratios
are well below 50%. And even as a
signaling as a forward return signaling
tool, it doesn't really work. Uh because
when we look at the weak forward returns
again across the asset class spectrum,
it's very very similar. You're not
really seeing any kind of signaling
value. You guys probably were talking
about the last two weeks as well had
probably guests on who said that's a
sign of an unhealthy market. It's not
what you see empirically. So from that
angle, I think we can have another
couple of weeks of of rotation that
people, you know, are still continuing
to be perhaps long the wrong stuff and
they have to rotate away from that with
very little effect. I think not only on
the equity index levels, but really
across the asset class spectrum.
>> Max, let's talk about within equities
was starting to perform. Just this quiet
consumer rally. It's quite stealthy.
We've seen a move of 8% on Delta so far
this month. The restaurant industry was
in a bit of trouble over the last year
or so. Now names like Carver up by
something like double digits through
February. Max, what do you think that
spells? Do you think that's sustainable?
>> Yeah, look I I think what it is and we
have seen that in during the reporting
season is that both the misses and the
beats are getting you know punished and
rewarded much you know much more
significant compared to history
particularly the misses on the earning
side. They're being really really
punished much more. Is that really a
sector thing or an index thing? No it's
not right. It's very very idiosyncratic,
very namespecific. So therefore, again,
I I wouldn't really draw big index
level, maybe not even sector level
conclusions. In fact, when you look at
something like XRT, when you look at the
S&P retail sector or US retail, you
know, that is still something that that
we very much prefer aside from the MAX 7
and rotating back into the hyperscalers.
Now, it's also leaning into some of
those more cyclical uh names, those
cyclical sectors that are potentially
benefiting now from those tax refunds
coming from those big beautiful bill uh
uh tax refunds and and stimulus
measures. But perhaps we are now then in
the next couple of months starting to
see some effect on the data manifesting
itself. Then it's stuff like US retail,
like the home builders, like regional
banks, like US transport, really leaning
into some of those more early cyclical
sectors and really those sectors that
are more exposed to the lower end of the
K of uh the US economy.
>> Yeah, I noticed in your note you talk
about how you want to move into the
lower end of the K-shaped economy
sectors in the US tactically. But Max,
is it sustainable to stay there?
I think it is because in fact when we
look at some of the data points over the
last not only six months but really the
last five six years since co I don't
think things are as K-shaped as the
narrative often portrays when you look
for example at the wealth effect look at
net wealth uh across the age groups
actually the ones that have benefited
the most that had the biggest net wealth
gains you'd be forgiven to think well
that's probably the baby boomers it's
the 65 plus year olds it's the ones with
the 401ks and with houses. It's actually
not. It's the ones below 40 year olds.
When you look at the 18 to 39 year old
age cohort, they had the biggest not
only total asset gains, but even net
wealth gains since co. So I do think
sometimes that K-shaped economy
narrative is perhaps a little bit too
much narrative, but when you look a bit
at the data, particularly on the wealth
gain side of things, it doesn't look as
K-shaped. So therefore, I do think that
it has some legs.
>> It's interesting though because the
president is going to be giving a speech
today on affordability. When you look at
the polling, it still shows that this is
a top concern for Americans. They still
feel like they cannot go out and afford
everyday basic needs. But you sounds
like you're seeing something different
in the data.
>> I think that there is a there's probably
a disconnect between the data and how
people feel. On the one hand, of course,
you can say if you're a baby boomer, are
you going to go out every every week,
every day? Do you do you spend like
crazy? Are you going to go to
restaurants every day? Probably not. Are
you going to go out and, you know, drink
your cocktails every day? Probably not.
Do you have these big ticket items,
these big ticket purchases, new beds and
all this, right? Are you going to buy a
new house every year? Do you have to
refurbish it every year? No. That is
exactly the sort of stuff that the under
40 year olds need to do, right? So, they
are the ones that have the big ticket
purchases where they probably do feel
still that inflation the most because
they probably spend the most. So that's
probably where the where the disparity
comes between what we're seeing in the
data and how people actually feel
because they are probably the ones that
age cohort are the ones that probably
spend the most and therefore they
probably feel a lot less well off than
the actual data does does tell them.
>> Hey Max, let's take you to the bond
market as well. Yields up this morning
across the curve by about a basis point
but sitting right on top of the
year-to-ate lows on a 10-year maturity.
The 10 year this morning about 4.1%.
Max, how much comfort do you take from
that move lower that we've seen in
yields at the long end of the curve over
the last few months at least? Max, you
typically talk about the so-called
danger zone. It feels like we're some
distance away from the danger zone.
>> Exactly. That does give us great
comfort. Let's let's be honest, the next
couple of weeks, if we go from 410 back
to 430, let's say term or or December
rate cut expectations go from a little
less than 60 basis points, let's say,
towards 40 basis points, do we really
care? Do we go from, you know, when we
go from slightly more than two cuts
expected to slightly less than two cuts
expected? Are you really going to buy
sell equities? Are we really going to be
bearish, high yield? Are you really
going to say, "Wow, that must be 5%
stronger dollar, therefore sell
everything in emerging markets." Not
really, right? That's a tiny move. It's
probably something tactically that you
can position for. I wouldn't be buying
treasuries here. So, we are still pretty
underway in developed market
sovereignties.
But you know that move is largely really
a bond market move. It is not high
enough to hit that danger zone because
like you said we are really always
concerned about that danger zone and
we're a good almost 30 basis points away
from that at the moment.
>> So Max, some people as you know freak
out either way in the bond market. When
yields are high it's going to upend
valuations. When they're low it reflects
something sinister developing in the US
economy. Max, what do you think it does
reflect? What's your evaluation of that?
>> Look on the valuation side. You guys
were talking about Walmart. I think
that's that's one of the things that uh
on the valuation side is very
significant right now. Walmart trades at
a 44 PE. You look at Amazon just just
look at look at an Amazon PE over the
last 25 years. You're almost back to the
low from the depths of the financial
crisis from 2008. You're almost back at
21. So we've got Amazon almost tra or
actually trading less than half of a PE
than Walmart. That doesn't make sense.
Look at the Mag 7 overall. The Mag 7 are
trading at 26 times earnings. You've got
the Russell that trades almost at 25
times earnings and you know within the
Russell we've got almost half of the
companies that sit on negative earnings
not negative earnings growth they sit on
negative EPS. So from a let's say if you
take a 12 to 24month view right if you
take a bit of a longerterm view where
valuations then start to matter that
really does call into question some of
those high beta named rallies that we've
seen over the last 3 four months where
really I would be rotating away again
from the small caps more towards the max
7 where the valuations look much more
reasonable now
>> Max good to see you as always thank you
sir Max Ker there of HSBC weighing again
on Walmart there at the end of the
conversation that name trending a little
bit lower softer down negative in the
pre-market ahead of earnings later on
this Morning. Numbers dropping from deer
just moments ago. It's a B and it's a
raise. EPS coming in for the first
quarter at 242. The estimate 2.05.
Here's the raise. They now see fullear
net income in a range of 4.5 billion to5
billion. They had seen that in a range
of 4 to4.75. That name is up in early
trading by 4.51%.
That's deer. Those results out just
moments ago. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
Yhira.
>> Hi John. This breaking just over an hour
ago, the BBC reporting former Prince
Andrew has been arrested on suspicion of
misconduct in public office. The arrest
coming after new details of his
relationship with convicted sex
offender, the late Jeffrey Epstein,
emerged. Andrew has consistently denied
any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, OpenAI is
close to finalizing the first phase of a
new funding round that's expected to
bring in more than $100 billion. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the overall
valuation of the company including the
eventual funding could exceed 850
billion. The first portion of the
funding will largely come from strategic
investors including Amazon, SoftBank,
Nvidia and Microsoft.
And oil is rising this morning after
gaining the most in one day since
October. Axios reporting the Trump
administration is closer to a major war
in the Middle East than most expect. The
US announced the visa restrictions on
Iranian officials and executives for
repressing recent anti-regime protests
and cutting off internet access. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey, thank you. Just to pick up on that
note from Axios in the last 24 hours.
That was some strong reporting. Take a
listen to this. Some powerful words. The
Trump administration is closer to a
major war in the Middle East than most
Americans realize. It could begin very
soon. Direct quote from Axios.
>> And to be honest, this was echoed to me
last night when I had some source calls.
It feels like at this moment when it
comes to Trump's second term, we are the
closest ever to a largecale conflict
with Iran. And that's why individuals
are concerned because they don't think
it'll just be with Iran. They think
potentially this will cause it to really
spread out throughout the region.
>> It would be shocking and we're just
beginning to internalize the prospect of
that happening with crude north of 70
7116 on Brent this morning, higher by a
little more than 1%. And next on the
program, Capex concerns. If 92% of the
free cash flow is going towards capex,
that's a different story. When we had
earning season, we saw the ratcheting up
in some of these names or all of a
sudden maybe it's not helping the
business model. Maybe they're not
driving revenue from it.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Matthew
Mish of UBS live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Later on this morning,
this is what you'll get. Walmart
earnings in the next 60 minutes or so.
So that could be the major data point of
this morning. Maybe much more so than
jobless claims at 8:30 Eastern time.
Another flavor. Maybe just taking a
temperature of the labor market in a few
hours time. In the equity market at the
moment, we're down by about a third of
1% on the S&P 500 pulling back on the
NASDAQ as well by 0.4. On the small cap,
some other performance there. We're down
by.5. The headlines in the commodity
market. You've all seen them in the last
24 hours. Crude with the biggest one-day
rally since October. Brent crude north
of 70 levels we haven't really
experienced since July last summer. 7121
up by 1.2% so far this morning following
this from the Axios and they're
reporting that we are the closest we've
been to a war in some time. Some
shocking reporting coming from Axios.
>> Yeah. Well, if you look at the hardware
right now that's in the Middle East, it
does look like how the US was setting
itself up before the invasion of Iraq in
2003. What is interesting though, when
you see those oil prices go higher, the
president's going to give a huge
affordability speech today in Georgia.
He's also going to talk about that next
week at the State of the Union. If he
sees oil prices continue to rise and
individuals are saying, "Sir,
potentially this conflict could mean
higher gas prices. Maybe then is that
what ends up being the pause?" But
wanting to maybe take a strike on Iran.
>> Crude rising this morning by 1.2% 7120
on Bren crude under Sanders this
morning. Capex consents
>> spending in the AI related names is now
eating up a lot of the free cash flow
which was the story of why you wanted to
own these names. If 92% of the free cash
flow is going towards capex that's a
different story. When we had earning
season we saw the ratcheting up in some
of these names where all of a sudden
maybe it's not helping the business
model. Maybe they're not driving revenue
from it.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Record spending from big tech giving
investors pause as the hyperscalers
tapped the global debt market to finance
the AI arms race. The team over at UBS
writing the following. We've raised our
26 issuance forecast to 360 billion from
300 with the possibility of further
upside surprises to capex and a
broadening out in issuance across the
sector. Joining us now is Matthew Mish
of UBS. Matt, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Thanks for having me, John.
>> Let's just start with that estimate,
that new number for you and a team.
What's guiding that? What's causing the
lift? That really is been the buildup
across uh the earning season really of
the increase in capex. We've had almost
$150 billion increase. It's up near 800
billion across the hyperscalers. And so
we've driven that estimate, you know, up
a good almost 15 to 20% kind of
commenurate with that. So we we've got
360 billion of IG tech issuance this
year. About 2/3 of that is going to be
hyperscaler specifically. We've got
another 1.8 trillion in total issuance
coming in the US IG market. So I still
think we think that this is manageable.
Clients have been positioned for this
and uh again it's it's a it's a sharp
contrast from what you're seeing in the
loan market where you've actually got
issuance down yearon year. So we're up
20 to 25% in USIG. Uh I think the demand
we think is going to remain quite firm
and the market's prepared for it. Uh but
you are saying on the flip side the
effect of AI disruption, the concerns
around the loan market filtering into
issuance where you're almost down 15 to
20%. And our latest forecast is down 20
to 25% for the full year.
>> Well, let's start with these big numbers
first and not just the size but the
denomination and the maturities that
these companies choose to issue in the
countries they choose to go in. That was
what stood out for us at Alphabet going
into the sterling debt market issuing
something ultra long. How are they
spreading out this issuance?
I think that people in the market that
know the strategy are arguing they want
to tap every single investor base. So
that includes not just US but global
investment grade. That also includes uh
the private markets and in many cases
infrastructure, project finance, asset
back finance. The idea is to tap every
single investor base to diversify but
also to reach as many investors as
possible. And that's been a thesis that
we've had for several months and I think
that's what you're seeing. Um, and in
terms of the long duration demand, it
really is coming and and sourcing
basically long duration demand in
different regions that need it. And so a
lot of that is key institutional
investor money.
>> Is that enough to keep spreads contained
or do you see some stress developing in
the year ahead? We are more concerned
with AI disruption and the impact on the
loan market in the near to medium term
than we are on over supply from the
hyperscalers and potential for supply
indigestion. That in my view is a medium
to longer term concern or no concern at
all to be candid.
>> So when it comes to disruption, it's AI
is going to disrupt so many of these
other companies that have loans out.
Like what kind of companies are you
concerned about? I mean, it's mainly the
private credit and the leverage loan
market where the model in a lot of cases
for a sponsor has been to lever up what
are traditionally very good businesses
that have niches uh and essentially
generate high free cash flow, high
margin. The largest two sectors are
basically tech which 90% of that is
software and then the other piece of
that is really business service and a
good share of that is information
service. those comprise over 50% of BDC
for example uh which is the proxy we use
for private credit portfolios and that's
where really where we think the
disruption could be more severe and the
key question that we're getting on the
client side is talk to me about the
different factors or catalysts that
could push forward or pull back the
timing right so the wave is coming so to
speak the credit quality will
deteriorate but the key question is the
timing and the severity So when we see
headlines about halting redemptions at
certain funds, it makes people nervous.
Now I know that you can't talk to this
story directly, but I'll share with you
verbatim from the Financial Times.
Private credit group Blue will
permanently restrict investors from
withdrawing their cash from its private
retail debt fund backtracking from an
earlier plan to reopen to redemptions
this quarter. That's from the Financial
Times this morning. When people see
headlines like that, they're trying to
work out, is that idiosyncratic? Is
there contagion risk here? Is that the
canary in the coal mine? What would you
say back to clients this morning?
>> The market structure matters a lot,
right? And so in the loan market, if
you're talking about private credit, the
vast majority are in closed end private
funds where there are lockups and so you
won't have that redemption risk. What's
important there is over twothirds of the
AUM in private credit are in that type
of fund. Middle market CLOS's are
generally closed end. The money is not
coming out. That's a buy and hold
structured finance vehicle. That's a
little about a h 100red billion. So 5 to
10% let's say of the outstanding. The
BDC area is about 25% of the
outstanding. Of that roughly 2/3 of it,
15 to 20% are public BDC's. So I think
it's important to put it in context,
right? Most of 75% of the assets I would
argue are locked up. Jonathan, you're
just not going to have that redemption
risk, right? And so you have to look at
the 20 to 25% where there potentially is
redemption risk. And then the question
is how much are you seeing, right? If I
if I have a 5% run on 25% of the market,
that's a little over 1% of the of of the
market in terms of the money that wants
to leave. Question really then is is
fundraising and money coming into the
market offsetting that. So I'm not
overly concerned with some of the areas
in terms of redemptions, right? one fund
doesn't really represent the aggregate
market structure in terms of the vehicle
that's of investment in a $2 trillion
market.
>> Matt a clinic I expected nothing less.
It's good to see you. Thank you sir.
Matthew Mish there of UBS breaking down
the extra issuance we could see from the
hyperscalers and beyond in the year
ahead as some of the risks or not
emerging elsewhere. Coming up on the
program we'll catch up with Ed Mills of
Raymond James as the US deploys its
largest military buildup in decades.
We've seen some major moves in crude up
5% plus in just two sessions. Crude
Brent crude north of 71 so far this
morning. Plus we'll get you some morning
movers with your higher carvana shares
plunging as higher costs weigh on
margins. That name is down by 16% in the
pre-market. Live from New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Three days, no losses on the S&P for the
first time so far this month. Equity
futures down just a touch this morning.
We're negative by a quarter of 1%. On
the NASDAQ, we're down by a third. It's
a 3-day bounce of only 0.71%.
It's easy to frame this negatively and
say this bull market has stalled over
the last month or so, but we're still
within 2% of all-time highs on the S&P
500 despite tons of tech pain and the
more cyclical parts of the market
performing in the last 24 hours. That's
encouraging, and we'll see if that
continues throughout this morning.
Elsewhere in the bond market, yields
with a lift doing better as the risk
aversion begins to fade. At least just
yesterday. Yields driven higher, not
just by that, but also by some Fed hawks
on the minutes. In the minutes, making
themselves hurt, driving yields higher
at the front end of the curve. We had
another basis point to twos. 346.99.
As we count down to the opening bell,
let's get some single names about three
hours away from that cash open. With
more, here's Yhira. Hey, Yhira.
>> Hi, John. We have a few doubledigit
movers to get through and we start with
Carbana. Shares are plunging 16% as
higher costs cut into profits in the
latest quarter. The online used car
seller has been spending aggressively
buying more cars and uh acquiring car
dealerships. But that rapid expansion
has been pressuring margins and the CEO
said expect that to continue the
investment something Wall Street has not
exactly been rewarding. Case in point
and we saw that over at Door Dash as
well. You are seeing shares soaring this
morning, up nearly 12% in the
pre-market, but it wasn't a straight
line up. The shares initially plunged as
it announced heavier spending yesterday.
Uh but sentiment flipped when it issued
a stronger outlook, saying that demand
is building, fueled by new customers.
So, at a time ahead of Walmart earnings,
when we're looking for cracks in
consumer demand, you won't find it in
the food delivery business. Uber also
had uh solid uh earnings on that front
as well. And we end on shares of Figma.
They are rising uh more than 12% in the
pre-market. The company gave a solid
outlook calming fears about AI
disruption. It's had a rough patch. Uh
the stock down roughly 25% from its IPO
price last year. It was also one of the
stocks that was caught up in the
software selloff, but its results today
providing some relief for now. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara later on this morning.
On our radar this morning, Fed officials
leaning away from the prospect of
cutting interest rates. The latest Fed
minutes showing several policy makers
even weighing potential rate hikes if
inflation remains stubborn. Elsewhere,
OpenAI closing in on another massive
funding round. The Chat GBT maker
expected to bring in more than 100
billion from strategic investors
including Microsoft, Amazon, and Nvidia.
Its next funding round's likely to raise
its valuation to near 850
billion US. And finally, President
Donald Trump making a trip to Georgia,
kicking off a stretch of visits to
voters around the country. The president
expected to push his policies on
affordability and the economy in the key
battleground state as the midterms grow
closer.
>> Caroline Leven spoke about this
yesterday, the president's press
secretary talking about the fact that he
wants to make things more affordable for
everyday people. So, he's going to a
swing state. He's going 70 m north of
Atlanta and he's going to be talking
about this. You know what I found
fascinating though? Yesterday, Reuters
came out with a poll that said you US
public approval of Trump's immigration
policies are the lowest level since his
return to the White House. Two issues he
won on affordability, getting inflation
down, and closing the border on
immigration. Right now, he's losing a
lot of ground on and I expect him to
talk about that today as well as next
week at the state of the union.
>> Well, I spent some time on affordability
and we'll be sitting on this topic
throughout this morning. Brent, WTI high
this morning once again up by another 1%
plus. Frank crude north of 71 on the
session so far. To your point earlier on
in the program, that's something that
people are going to pay attention to.
>> Helma Croft of RBC put out a note
overnight what's going on with Iran. And
she said on her recent visit to the
region earlier this month month,
multiple wellplaced observers warned
that Iran would likely to start
targeting energy facilities and other
key economic assets to force Washington
to stand down. So try to go after the
president and the US where it hurts. We
saw this in how many administrations.
Remember when gasoline hit $5 a barrel,
all of a sudden Saudi Arabia was in a
pariah for the Biden administration?
They went to the Middle East. If gas
prices go up, this could potentially be
something that pushes the president to
maybe want to wind down either some of
the rhetoric or maybe not take the
stance on a long prolaged strike on
Iran.
>> Let's keep it on the geopolitics.
Tensions very clearly rising between the
US and Iran. US forces amassing their
largest military buildup in the Middle
East in decades. The White House
maintaining a potential deal to avoid a
conflict is still on the table.
>> There's many reasons and arguments that
one could make uh for a strike against
the uh against Iran. The president has
always been very clear though with
respect to Iran or any country around
the world. Diplomacy is always his first
option and Iran would be very wise to
make a deal with President Trump and
with this administration.
>> The tension sending to its steepest dead
again since October. Joining us now to
discuss is Mika Sona of Bloomberg
government. Mika, welcome back to the
program. Is this getting harder and
harder to ignore?
>> Yes, absolutely. I mean, I think this is
one of the top priorities for the White
House. Certainly, the president met with
top advisers yesterday to discuss a
strategy on Iran and I think that uh
this is going to be telling in the weeks
to come, but uh US officials are
preparing as soon as this weekend for a
potential attack. Now that um the
possibility of that is unlikely given
that uh the president has not yet
decided on what he wants to do and is
not going to come forth publicly with
his plans but we should expect you know
a lot of tensions to continue in the
next couple weeks between the US and
Iran.
>> Maker this is not the president's style.
He's not afraid of military conflict or
strikes to be more specific but he likes
to have contained targeted strikes that
generate high impact issues on the
international scene. Am this could be
something that drags on. How different
could this engagement be?
>> I think it could be very different given
the fact that Iran has also signaled
that they are not afraid to strike back
and retaliate against the US if the US
does take those actions. So the White
House and the administration officials
are clearly monitoring that and making
sure that um you know this is the
correct move. move and as we just
mentioned before, this could also have
an impact on oil prices which can
trickle down to the consumer which could
also make it a political problem for the
president. So there's a lot at stake
here.
>> Mika SA down in Washington DC. Mika,
thank you. To continue the conversation,
Ed Mills of Raymond James. Ed, we've
often heard the president be
congratulated for peace through
strength. He has a means of doing
things, a way of doing things. It's
targeted. It's contained. It's high
impact. Could this be a different
approach?
>> Jonathan, it's possible. But I do think
that the base case here is President
Trump likes to escalate to deescalate.
He wants to put a lot of pressure on
Iran. If there is a strike, he does like
those quick wins. I think it's really
important the conversation we've been
having already this morning on
affordability. Uh the president has a
real issue already on affordability. If
this does cause a market reaction,
especially within uh energy markets,
that is a very limited window that he
has. And I think one of the big issues
here is that when we go back to June,
when we look at what happened in
Venezuela with Maduro, there was a very
clear objective and there was a lot of
political support. Um maybe not
necessarily kind of broadly kind of
within the American public, but kind of
within uh the policy circles that this
was a specific action that needed to be
taken. I don't know what that specific
action that needs to be taken right now
besides some of the conversations we've
been having for years. protesters,
enrichment of uranium, kind of the
nuclear program within Iran. What is the
need right now to do this? I don't have
that question.
>> And Iran is not Venezuela. This is
entirely different complex. What would
be a quick win for the president than if
he were to strike Iran?
>> Yeah, Amarie, I would have to, you know,
kind of look specifically at what Israel
has been talking about related to the
ballistic missile capabilities of Iran.
Um, one of the big changes since October
7th is that uh, deterrence is no longer
the option. There is a much greater
emphasis on offensive strategies. If
there are concerns that the nuclear
program continues to enrich, that they
could be closer to um, a weapon that
could be deployed via ballistic missile,
taking out those ballistic missile
facilities, uh, would be kind of one of
those possible quick wins. Another
attack on the nuclear sites is also
possible if there's been a rebound. But
that also upsets some of the
conversations that Donald Trump wanted
to have after the attacks of last June
that those nuclear facilities had been
obliterated. So he does run the risk
that if he goes after those, it opens
the question, what was the actual
damage?
>> And the question, of course, a lot of
people are talking about how this might
not be short-lived. This could be days,
weeks, and even maybe months long. Ed,
is there a potential that Donald Trump
starts looking like George Bush? When
you look at the mil the Middle East
right now and the US military posture,
it looks like 2003.
>> Yeah. So, what we've told clients at
Raymond James is that when we look at
these geopolitical events, uh there
hasn't been a huge market reaction
because of the fact that they've been
targeted. Those quote unquote quick wins
have taken place. Emory, if we do go
into weeks or months, if we start having
those comparisons to the last time we've
had major buildups in the Middle East,
um that would be a very different market
expectation than what we have right now.
Uh so any conversation about comparisons
is not a conversation this market wants
to have. Ed, how does he do this at the
same time as he's going to give a huge
speech today on affordability and
potentially the even the rhetoric coming
out and the moving of military hardware
in the region without even a strike yet
happening is pushing oil prices higher.
>> Yeah. What I would say is so we have the
speech on affordability in Georgia
today. We're on tariff watch on the
Supreme Court. Maybe Friday, maybe
Monday, maybe Tuesday. Tuesday night we
have the State of the Union address. So
there is a level of escalation right in
front of the time when President Trump
is going to be in prime time on every
single channel addressing the nation.
And so I do think that there is some
level of coordination between all of
these activities and the military
buildup that we see. We might not have a
resolution before the State of the Union
address. And that State of the Union
address could be the thing that we're
all watching to get a signal of what
might happen next. Do you think there's
a chance he actually takes the strike
before the State of the Union and then
has this window into the US public to
explain why he did so?
>> It's possible. Um, you know, the State
of the Union address is unlike any other
opportunity of the year. U, generally
speaking, State of the Union addresses
are well scripted, much in advance. They
don't like breaking news. When you've
seen breaking news, you know, filter
into State of the Union addresses, they
come across disjointed. Um, so from a
kind of pure political perspective, you
generally don't want to have those
events right before these events. Um, so
maybe making the case as to what is
necessary with Iran is maybe a better
strategy. Um, and having that ability to
say the forces are in the region. It is
up to Iran. We need them to
denuclearize. I don't think they
necessarily want to kind of be clear
about what they want on regime change
because that's not a clearcut outcome as
well. Um, high stakes on a very kind of
important address, especially if he
wants the message to be affordability.
Talking about, you know, kind of a major
political entanglement and geopolitical
risk is not necessarily what gives the
president kind of any political uh
tailwinds. It's a lot of headwinds
instead. Ed, can we finish on the
Supreme Court and the potential for
getting that decision before the
weekend? The optics here could be very
important. Do you think Supreme Court
justices want to sit there in front of a
State of the Union address after making
a decision to strike down the
president's tariffs? Is that something
that they would have to consider going
into the weekend?
>> It it is, Jonathan. And um what we've
seen in the times past when the Supreme
Court has made decisions close to the
State of the Union address, um
presidents have almost waged their
finger at the Supreme Court and there's
been a conversation about was that
appropriate. We look back to the
Citizens United decision uh looking back
to kind of decisions that the uh
President Obama didn't like uh with the
court. This would be something that
President Trump takes very personal. Uh
he is someone that would be very likely
to do this. U one final thought on the
Supreme Court decision. What we keep on
telling clients at Raymond James is that
it's an important decision, but the
court might change the process. They are
not going to change the outcome. Tariffs
are here to stay. The president has a
lot of other authorities. No matter what
the Supreme Court does, these tariffs
that have existed since April 2nd of
last year will continue after any
Supreme Court decision. There might be a
little bit of a process change or a
little bit of a hiccup in timing, uh,
but it doesn't change what the president
is able to do.
>> Ed, thank you, sir. Appreciate your
input as always. Ed Mills there of
Raymond James on the situation down in
Washington DC and the situation abroad
as well with Iran. Just listening to to
Ed there targeted quick clear objective
in mind that leads to deescalation peace
through strength. We've seen that
playbook from this president over the
course of the last decade or so. And the
question that people are asking is this
feels so so different. Would the
president actually be willing to engage
in a different playbook in a different
way? Especially when you know what Iran
is immediately going to do. Likely
target energy facilities, likely cut off
the straight of Hermoose, likely go
after tankers in the straight, and
potentially could have a real impact on
energy. Now, if you were the president
of United States and you thought you
were going to maybe take this strike,
what would you probably do? Maybe try to
shore up energy elsewhere like he's
doing right now when it comes to general
licenses, they're expanding in Venezuela
and allowing Chevron, any Repzol to go
find some more. Maybe they can boost
some production there because they might
need it if they are going to have a
prolonged conflict with tan.
>> Brent crew this morning up by 1.6% 7150
on Brent so far in the session. Let's
give an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Back
with us here. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing shares of deer
rising 4 and a.5% in the pre-market
after exceeding earnings estimates for
the first quarter. The company also
boosting its net income guidance for the
full year topping Wall Street
expectations. Dear CEO saying, quote,
"While the global large agricultural
industry continues to experience
challenges, we're encouraged by the
ongoing recovery in demand." Meanwhile,
former South Korean President Yunsukle
facing life in prison after being found
guilty of leading an insurrection with
his 2024 martial law declaration. The
court saying Yun damaged the
constitutional order by mobilizing
military forces. Yun's lawyers denounced
the ruling as politically motivated and
vowed to fight until the end. And the
BBC reporting former Prince Andrew has
been arrested on suspicion of misconduct
in public office. As of yet, Andrew has
not been charged with a crime. We will
bring you more details as we have them.
Dutch brief John
>> Yhara, thank you. That's big news out of
the UK. More headlines when we get them.
Of course, as Yahara said, we'll bring
them to you. Up next on the program, the
consumer under pressure. Inflation feels
like it's a bit matted down. Geopolitics
is a bit matted down right now. I think
the worry that we see is a bit of
consumer sentiment. Some of the consumer
sentiment numbers are very, very
challenging. Up next, we'll catch up
with Elena Schullet of the Conference
Board from New York City this morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Check out deer in the pre-market. The
stock is up following earnings and early
trading is up by 4.51%. Beaten a raise.
Here's the beat. EPS at 242, the
estimate 2.05. And here's the raise.
They now see fullear net income in a
range of 4.5 billion to 5 billion. The
previous range was four to 4.75. Better
numbers from that company. The stocks up
by more than 4%.
>> I think this is really important,
especially going into this report. A lot
of individuals were concerned about the
fact that we haven't had as big as
soybean exports. Potentially farmers
weren't buying as much of the hardware
they need. And the commentary, this is
from the CEO. The global uh large
agricultural industry continues to
experience challenges, tariffs and the
likes. That's my words. We're encouraged
by the ongoing recovery in demand within
both construction and small agricultural
segments in construction as well. That's
really important and what this
administration is trying to see and see
a boost in manufacturing and
productivity in America.
>> Dear with a better story to tell this
morning. Next up for earnings, Walmart
just around the corner. Under surve this
morning, the consumer under pressure.
>> Inflation feels like it's a bit matted
down. Geopolitics is a bit matted down
right now. I think the worry that we see
is a bit of consumer sentiment. Some of
the consumer sentiment numbers are very
very challenging. The emergence of the K
economy, K companies, and what's the
second and third derivative to consumer
confidence, consumer spending.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Consumer sentiment sitting near its
lowest level in more than a decade. The
latest read on spending due in under 15
minutes time when we get Walmart
reporting earnings. Joelena Schullet of
the Conference Board writing, "Elevated
prices, higher borrowing costs, and
uneven income growth are forcing tougher
trade-offs. Walmart earnings will be a
critical read." Yolena joins us now for
more. Elena, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is it difficult difficult to get a clean
read through the data right now? And are
you leaning on reports like Walmart just
that little bit more? It's very
difficult to get a a clear read like on
anything from the labor market to
consumer spending but there are some
signals that uh consumer spending is
moderating you know in response to that
kind of like downward trend in consumer
confidence. So if you look at retail
sales real retail sales in December were
negative. So how much of that um goes
into the GDP report that we'll get
tomorrow? We're about to see. I will
also be looking at the real spending uh
in the another report that comes out
tomorrow like PCE report. So that is a
very interesting one because what we
have seen recently is that uh income
trend has moderated quite significantly.
So if you adjust income personal income
growth uh by inflation and by taxes you
will see that uh income growth slow to
zero in Q3 and Q4. Is GDP in this
country unlike in years gone by less
dependent on consumption and is it
becoming less labor intensive as well?
>> That will be interesting in tomorrow's
report. I think that we will see a
smaller contribution from consumer
spending. But what will define
tomorrow's number is what happens to
trade and we'll get some data this
morning at 8:30 and also what happens to
government during the government
shutdown um in the fourth quarter. When
it comes to GDP though, isn't a lot of
it being driven just by these
hyperscalers which then may end up
taking American jobs?
>> Totally. I think uh 2026 will be an
interesting year in that respect. So how
much investment we'll get uh will you
know define GDP growth but I think
consumers in particular which has been
the key engine behind economic growth
that will fade as a contribution to GDP
this year. When it comes to the
consumers, I was looking at how they're
feeling about tariffs because we might
get the Supreme Court decision on Friday
and Council on Foreign Relations and
Morning Consult said regardless
Republican Democrats, 65% say that
everyday goods have gone up because of
tariffs. Are you seeing the same? We see
the same kind of trend in our own
consumer confidence indicator uh across
political affiliations, across income,
across ages and generations. you see uh
a decline in consumer confidence
actually uh it's been a trend over the
uh last several months. So yeah,
definitely
>> seems to be putting the Federal Reserve
on the back foot. Anyone who read
through the minutes just yesterday, this
is how they read. Introducing a bit of
two-way risk to interest rates. Several
participants indicated that they would
have supported a two-sided description
of the committee's future interest rate
decisions, reflecting the possibility
that upward adjustments to the target
range for the federal funds rate could
be appropriate if inflation remains at
above target levels. Inflation has been
above target now for what five years.
>> Yep.
>> Are they getting serious finally?
>> Uh well, you know what I will be looking
at in the March meeting um you know data
is how are they talking about risks. So
recently the labor market risks uh were
above those for inflation. So this is a
part of the you know the materials they
released with the statement. So I think
this time around we will see that
inflation risks are above those for the
labor market. So that would uh signal
that they're getting more serious about
it.
>> How much harder is this going to make
life for the incoming Fed chair who
might have a different opinion on the
balance of risk?
>> It will be a difficult one anyway
regardless of who and when and what uh
happens to the Fed, right? And the
composition of the Fed. It will be a
difficult one because uh the uh targets
will continue to be in conflict. I think
the labor market is not accelerating.
It's going to continue to be a question,
right? It's healthy. It's relatively
healthy. I I get it. But I think we we
we
cannot just discount all the risks about
it.
>> Yolenna, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you,
Yolennena. over there at the
conference board. But it's starting to
feel like this Federal Reserve is
setting us up for a prolonged pause.
That pause can only last so long under
this leadership because chairman power
will depart by the time we get to the
June meeting. An incoming Fed chair,
likely most people assume will be. Kevin
Walsh might have a difficult go of it to
get this committee on site.
>> That's where my mind went when these
minutes came out and I was seeing all
these headlines. I was likeoo the bar
just got so much higher for Kevin Walsh.
Already he was going to face a pretty
divided Federal Reserve. And now you're
just seeing how divided it was that the
mere suggestion potentially individuals
now talking about maybe inflation is
such a concern they have to hike. I
think the key question is when you look
at the productivity boom that a lot of
people are talking about in America. Is
it inflationary or is it
disinflationary? I think we just that
remains to be seen.
>> Is it a hawkish turn for the committee
or just a couple of hawks several hawks
making themselves heard in the minutes
after we had some dovish disscent?
That's what you're going to have to
figure out between now and the next
meeting and in the news conference with
chairman Pal.
>> Potentially. That's a good point. there
was two descents. So then individuals
are saying, "Well, we need to counter
that descent to try to make this a
little bit more of an equilibrium when
we have what they're just talking about,
two-sided potential risks. It's going to
be incredibly challenging time." And all
of this is happening while we're still
waiting for Kevin Worsh to get a date
for the hearing and then of course
whether or not he's going to get that
Senate.
>> That calendar is still empty at the
moment and Senator Tom Tillis has got
his own idea on what should happen.
First, equity futures on the S&P
negative by a quarter of 1%. Up next,
we'll catch up with Aaron Kennan of
Clear Harbor Asset Management, Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research, Mary Heinstrush
of Bank of America, Terry Weisman of
McQuary. Numbers, earnings from Walmart.
Up next, just around the corner, the
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance is
coming up after this commercial break.
The theme for 2026 is we're going to
have a broadening out a healthier
economy. We have a great macro backdrop
globally.
>> Some of the consumer sentiment numbers
are very very challenging.
>> The economy is fine. The labor market is
not stressed nor is it overheating.
>> We have strong forces that will lead to
a acceleration of the economy. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures declining by just 2% on the S&P.
We're down by.3 on the NASDAQ 100
following the best day of gains on the
S&P in about two weeks on the S&P 500.
We have gone three days without losses.
For the first time this month, it's been
volatile and those gains, that bounce
has been very muted over those three
days, up by just.71%.
In the bond market, yields off the lows
of the year. The 2-year yield up another
basis point at 346.99, driven higher by
some hawkish Fed minutes on 10 up to
4.0923%.
Yields higher also there by about a
basis point. The next stop for the
conversation about the economy, Walmart
earnings. Those numbers will drop any
moment now as we try and get a better
read on the US economy.
>> Absolutely. And it's really a high bar
for Walmart and many are expecting their
strong results after the holiday season
and an absolute rotation we've seen at
least in the stock market of individuals
almost a flight to safety when it comes
to Walmart when we saw the tech
hyperscalers really take a beating
>> and those numbers just dropped right
now. So two things to talk about with
this name at the moment. So you've got a
capital return program announcing a new
$30 billion share buyback plan. That's
one piece of the story. But the bigger
piece of the story for a lot of you out
there will be the read on the US economy
and the guide they've just offered. They
now see the year's adjusted EPS at 275
to 285. The estimate was 297. That is a
touch more cautious than where the
street was coming into the print. The
stock is down by close to 3%.
>> And this is what we heard yesterday from
Oliver Chen speaking to you and Lisa. He
said this is what individuals is a risk
going into this report. Estimates are
fairly high for next year as we saw with
that range. And usually what he said
though is Walmart likes to guide
conservatively. Now they are guiding
conservatively today and that is why
you're seeing shares lower because it's
coming lower than what those estimates
were. Now is this basically Walmart
saying potentially consumers are not
going to keep up to pace with how
individuals are thinking of how much
they're going to spend or is just
Walmart maybe just being actually just
conservative in their guidance.
>> Fourth quarter was essentially in line
adjusted EPS at 74 cents the estimate
73. But speaking to that conservatism
that Amory is raising, let's talk about
the guide for the first quarter.
Adjusted EPS 63 to 65. That's a range.
The estimate was 69. For the year ahead,
a range of 275 to 285. The estimate was
297. That stock is down by more than 3%.
But you've also got to consider where
we've come from. This stock was trading
at an all-time high in the last week
with a 50p. So the fact we're down 3%
off the back of conservative numbers is
not a major move against the backdrop of
a much much bigger move to the upside.
>> Absolutely. The context really matters
here when it comes to Walmart and how
stunning this stock has has been doing.
Figital is the word Oliver Chen used.
The fact that 90% of Americans live less
than 10 miles from a Walmart, they have
that convenience when it comes to a
physical place to go buy groceries and
everything else. But at the same time,
compared to Target or compared say to
Costco, what Walmart has been spending
and able to do on the digital front when
it comes to AI to be more efficient,
that is why investors have loved this
name.
>> Let's see if those losses hold. Let's
see if they stick. The name is down by
about 2.8% so far in the pre-market.
We'll stay on top of that story for you.
Coming up this hour, Aaron Kennedy,
Clear Harbor Asset Management joins us
with stocks searching for a fourth day
of gains. Toby Marcus of Wolf Research
as President Donald Trump continues his
push for affordability and Terry Weisman
of McQuary with the latest Fed minutes
showing a deeper divide among officials.
We begin this out with stocks inching
lower. Aaron Canada of Clear Harbor
Asset Management writing the following.
These trends do not appear to resemble a
riskoff environment. rather it reflects
both a sector rotation and hence
valuation normalization cycle. Aaron
joins us now for more. Aaron, good to
see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Let's start with Walmart. We're all
looking for a read on the US economy.
Wondering how dependable the US data is.
Payrolls with a big upside surprise in
the last week. How much weight would you
put on that cautious outlook from
Walmart this morning?
>> Well, as you mentioned at the top,
Walmart's had a a very strong run.
They're trading at almost a 50* 4p
multiple. they're trading at like a
enterprise valid IBIDA multiple of like
23 times. You compare that to even like
an Amazon it's trading at like a 50%
discount and you have a lot of the
growth at AWS and everywhere else. And
so I think you know speaking
specifically to the consumer at at
Walmart. Uh same same store growth has
been relatively strong there. it it has
outpaced target and we'll have to see
you know how this data plays out how how
it fits into sort of the the broader
macro data the retail data the PCE data
consumption generally and uh you know
the report just hit the tape we'll have
to see what the Q&A session looks like
as well
>> true we'll get to the call a little bit
later this has been a pretty defensive
market we've seen utilities trade at
record highs we've seen staples trade at
all-time highs Walmart's been a big
piece of that and people are trying to
figure out if this is risk aversion some
kind of maybe a market signaling a
cyclical downturn or whether this just
reflects a rotation away from tech and
to your point a normalization. Why do
you choose one versus the other? Where's
the conviction come from?
>> Well, I think the procyclicality is both
due to valuation. We've seen extended
valuations on the technology side, but
cheaper valuations on the procyclical
side. If you take a look at where we are
year to date, you just mentioned we're
only up 70 basis points on the S&P 500,
but if you look at the eco weight, we're
up over 6%, I think closer to 7% year to
date. If you look at the Russell 2000,
we're up over 7%. If you look at Europe,
we're up almost 4%. Look at EM, we're up
11%. But there's one thing in common
across small cap US, equal weight S&P,
not market cap weighted, EM and Europe,
and that is that sector rotation. If you
look at the sectors that are that are
really pushing performance, it's, you
know, materials, it's energy, it's
industrials, it's consumer staples. So,
it's not just an American story, it's a
global story as well. Do you think that
dampens the catweight S&P 500 index
level story for the year ahead?
>> Well, it's going to be interesting to
see, you know, whether or not the horses
are let out uh from the barn later on
this year and whether or not sort of
tech can play its role, but tech is one
of the three most significant
underperformers of the year. If you look
at tech consumer discretionary and and
and also um you know if if you look at
uh tech consumer discretionary and
what's the third largest consist of like
23 of the S&P 500 all the the three
largest sectors representing the S&P are
down on the year. So it's quite
remarkable that the equal weighted uh
S&P 500 is is is up to such a great
extent.
>> We look at consumer names like Walmart.
Does this give you any sense of where we
are in terms of the K-shaped economy and
recovery for the rest of the year?
>> It's going to be a challenge. I I I
think if if you look at um the K-shaped
question, 40 less than almost 40% of
Americans do not own financial assets.
So, they're not riding this tide right
now. Yet, they they've seen higher
prices across used automobiles,
automobile services. Wages are starting
to uh peter out a little bit on the
growth side. uh food costs are still
elevated. We're on average about 40%
higher than we were in early 2020 across
the board on sort of consumer goods
products. So um with that said though,
we're rolling into 2026. We have the big
beautiful bill that just kicked in. We
have a lot of stimulus that's
anticipated. You know, no tax on tips,
no tax on overtime, maybe a stimulus
check being sent back in the mail to a
good portion and cohort of Americans.
That's positive. Then you have sort of
that full, you know, sort of
depreciation question around, you know,
that that's going to incentivize
industrial companies to rebuild and re
and here in the United States. So that
could be a tailwind for growth this
year. We we would anticipate maybe the
GDP number running a little hot for the
full year 2026, which could augur well
ultimately for the risk on trade.
>> But that GDP number running hot is
because of tech companies, right? Less
so consumers.
>> Part of it's the $650 billion
hyperscaler buildout. But I think you
know the other piece we haven't seen and
it's running with a lag is higher
tariffs are incentivizing growth in the
United States. Deals that the Trump
administration has cut with cries like
Japan for example are just going to
start those picks and shovels are just
starting now. So in some sense we think
that there may be a tailwind on that
again that pro-yclical side factories
being built here in the United States
and that could augur well for
industrials utilities um and and perhaps
part of the the tech sector as
investment growth is not something we're
used to in this country over the past
few decades. How does that change how
you play offense in the equity market?
>> Well, it's a good question. We when I
sat here about one year ago, we we
touted the the the thought that due to
valuations and and and due to this sort
of procyclicality that we anticipated
that you wanted to move a little more
equal weight and I think just thinking
about that picks and shovels,
industrials, energy, even natural gas,
there's an oil trade going on right now
because there's a lot of geopolitical
risk. But if you're thinking about
electric generation in the United
States, there are two things to think
about. One is natural gas. And the
quickest way to get an Electron online
is through solar and commercial battery
backup. And so we think that there are a
lot of opportunities there as well. This
is not just a tech story, but if you own
the S&P 500, you are exposed. There is a
debt piece to the investment story as
well. You've talked about in the past
above target, above trend growth driven
by deficits. Now there is a credit piece
to the investment coming from tech capex
as well. My question to you would be
typically my conclusion when I hear
something like that would be okay,
equities outperform bonds. Bonds are
going to be a bit soft here off the back
of this. They've got to fund it. And now
I'm starting to see yields roll over at
the long end of the curve. Up a little
bit in the past few days. But what do
you think that performance in bonds is
telling you? What does it signal?
>> It's interesting, Jonathan. So, we've
seen that the bull flattener to your
point. And, you know, I think there are
a couple things going on there. One is
this sense that maybe AI is going to be
a disinflationary trend longer term. And
so, that may, you know, sort of pull
down the longer end of the market.
Growth could remain strong. Um but the
the this the PCE data for example and
maybe CPI and a run rate over the next
12 months could actually trend towards
target and I think that's why you're
seeing you know the the long end of the
curve pull down a bit and uh you know I
think there's there's there's that view
that we could see a little bit of that
that bull flattening. Do you have
confidence we can stay at these levels
then? Because the consensus view that
I'm sort of getting my hands around over
the past few days is that every time we
drop down towards four, I just see push
back coming from desks on Wall Street
and research team suggesting that we
can't stay at these levels. I don't
know. I look at 10ear break evens at 230
this morning. I look at the 10-year
Treasury at uh 410 and that that gives
me a little bit of comfort relative to
history that, you know, I'm picking up
uh 180 basis points owning a 10-year.
This is very different than prior, you
know, sort of the the zero interest rate
environment that we've been in when the
last decade. So, I think there's a
little bit of cushion there. Um, if you
if you believe in the idea of
incremental disinflation, at least
inflation remaining below 3%, growth
remaining reasonably strong, running on
a real basis, maybe at 2 and a half or
higher, so we could see like a 5%
nominal plus print on full year 2026 GDP
this year. You know, we think that that
that augers reasonably well for uh for
the market. And you know, the question
too, of course, is what's the Fed going
to do? And with two at 350 and the Fed
funds rate at 350, the market's saying
Fed doesn't need to do much right now.
Aaron Canard of Clear Harbor, it's good
to see you, sir. Thank you. Aaron Caner
of Clear Harbor Asset Management. This
is what we're hearing from Walmart. So,
a conservative guide from the company
just moments ago and Yahara will bring
you more of the details there in just a
moment. I wanted to bring you some color
from the seauite. This came from the CFO
in an interview that a team here at
Bloomberg News had with him. We think
it's prudent to be somewhat measured
with the outlook right now as we have
been. There's a whole lot of the year to
go in and that it's still a pretty fluid
dynamic macro backdrop. That doesn't
sound overwhelmingly bullish in the same
way as we've heard from a few guests.
>> No. And according to our colleagues,
he's citing slower hiring and trade
uncertainty. We do need to remember
Walmart does in the beginning of the
year typically want to guide
conservatively and then potentially
later. But it does look like there's
still many question marks that the
seauite is facing with and that is why
they are guiding lower than the market
was expecting. But when he says
something like there's a whole lot of
year to go in that resonates with me.
Look how much has happened this year
already. It's been what 7 weeks and so
much has already gone on in the policy
and financial markets.
>> Lots of controversy around tariff
pricing. This from the team over at
Walmart. As we look into the coming
quarter as well as the coming year, it
feels a little bit more like a
normalized pricing environment. We'll
have more on that for you later on in
the program. Let's give an update on the
story from Walmart and a whole lot more
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Exactly, John. Just recapping the those
results. We are seeing Walmart shares
down 2 and 3/4%. The retail giants
reporting fourth quarter earnings that
largely beat estimates, but its fullear
forecast fell short of higher
expectations with the company citing a
quote fluid macro backdrop. While US
sales rose over 4%, Walmart is no longer
the world's biggest company by sales,
falling to second place behind Amazon.
Meanwhile, the other breaking story this
morning, the BBC reporting former Prince
Andrew has been arrested on suspicion of
misconduct in public office. As of yet,
Andrew has not been charged with a crime
and denies any wrongdoing. King Charles
releasing a statement moments ago saying
he is aware of the situation and the law
must take its course.
And French President Emanuel Mcronone is
rejecting social media company's free
speech defense as Europe considers
banning children from platforms like
Instagram and Facebook. The Trump
administration has criticized the
proposals calling them a form of
censorship. Speaking in India, Mcronone
said the free speech argument just
doesn't stand up. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> I think he chose some more select words,
but I can't utter them this morning. Up
next on the program, highlighting
economic wins.
>> More Americans are working today than at
any time in American history. Wages have
gone up at a much faster clip than
inflation. Watch the State of the Union.
We're going to be talking about the
economy.
>> Up next, we'll talk about the economy
with Toby Marcus of Wolf Research live
from New York City. this morning. Good
morning.
Numbers for Walmart out just moments
ago. This is what the picture looks like
in the pre-market. The name is down by
close to 2.9%. A cautious guide from the
company the year ahead guide for
adjusted EPS 275 to 285 the estimate was
297 so a touch conservative that's why
the stock is lower by 3% and the
guidance just in terms of the language
from the seauite is a touch conservative
as well this from the CFO speaking to
Bloomberg news we think it's prudent to
be somewhat measured with the outlook
right now as we have been there's a
whole lot of the year to go in what's
still a pretty fluid dynamic macro
backdrop
>> also talking about the fact that tariff
driven inflation has reached its peak or
is reaching it. So they feel like they
have a little bit more of a normalized
pricing environment. Maybe they
understand a little bit more of the
rules of the road. But yeah, they're
they're driving this guidance in
conservative matter. So much so that
also with these numbers, Amazon has
officially dethroned Walmart as the
biggest global company by revenue.
>> Walmart down in the pre-market by 3% at
the moment. Equity futures on the S&P
still just about negative by a few ten
of 1%. On the NASDAQ 100, we're down by
0.4. On the Russell, we're down by 0.3
this morning. this morning highlighting
economic winds.
>> More Americans are working today than at
any time in American history. Wages have
gone up at a much faster clip than
inflation. Watch the State of the Union.
We're going to be talking about the
economy. We inherited a mess and now we
have prices way down. We have energy way
down. Gasoline is now breaking $2 a
gallon in many places. And it's been
actually amazing.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump continuing his
affordability tour in Georgia today
ahead of his State of the Union next
week. Joining us to discuss is Mika Sona
of Bloomberg government. Ma, the story
is getting harder to sell. The headline
GDP figures have been decent. They've
been strong. Last week's payrolls number
was great. Big upside surprise. The
problem is the consumer sentiment
surveys have been soggy. They've been
awful for the last year or so.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, White House
officials met this week to discuss how
they're actually going to implement an
affordability message ahead of the
midterms. This has been a huge issue for
the administration. Uh, President Trump
has laid out a number of initiatives to
potentially help people's pocketbooks,
but the public is just not feeling it
yet. So, the president is starting to
embark on this tour to try and craft a
message because uh people inside the
White House and the president likely
know that it's not enough just to blame
his predecessor Joe Biden and Democrats
for a problem that is still occurring.
So Mika, he highlighted gasoline prices.
I think you'll struggle to find gasoline
breaking $2 a gallon anywhere in the
United States, but the trend is clear.
The problem we now have is the crude
starting to bubble away. Oil is higher
and we see it again this morning off the
back of the prospect of action in the
Middle East. Will that be part of the
calculation for the president as he
considers whether to strike Iran or not?
I think it's very likely and I think
that uh uh people close to the president
and officials within the White House are
really weighing that because if this
becomes a political problem for the
president in a year that's already
bullish for Democrats, this is going to
be a huge issue and the president could
get a lot of blame and blowback from his
party. So that's definitely going to
factor in. I know that the White House
is trying to make affordability its
number one priority as it struggles to
craft an effective message and also uh
you know win on this issue that
Democrats have really dominated in past
elections in an off year last year.
>> Mika, it's good to see you as always. M
Ser of Bloomberg government down in
Washington DC. There are domestic
considerations and of course
international relations considerations.
On the domestic front, if you're worried
about affordability, destabilizing oil
production in the Middle East probably
isn't a smart move.
>> Absolutely. And the fact of the matter
is this president loves to come out and
talks to talk about lower gasoline
prices. Now, I looked at the average
right now. We're at 292 across the
country. If there's one county in
Oklahoma that is a little bit closer to
two, I think the average is 215 there,
but for by and large, mostly across the
United States, gas prices are closer to
three than $2 a barrel. And if oil
prices go higher, that's going to tick
up. And that is a big concern for this
White House.
>> Let's keep it on this subject. On this
topic, Toby and Marcus of Wolf Research
writes the following. Trump will be
unable to deliver on many of his
affordability oriented regulatory
threats. Any calls for congressional
action will fall on deaf ears. Tobin
joins us now for more. Tobin, welcome.
On the affordability front, on that
effort, what options does he have?
>> Well, that's really the question. I I
think the story of the year so far has
been a story of reaching for ways to
tackle different elements of the
affordability challenge that the
president doesn't really have the
authority to do. So, we've seen this 10%
credit card rate cap call. We've seen
the endorsement of the credit card
competition act. We've seen this call
for restrictions on investor ownership
of single family rentals. Um, we've seen
various sort of principles put out on uh
electricity prices and reports about
voluntary compacts with the
hyperscalers. But none of those are
areas where the president really has a
well- definfined unilateral authority to
do anything. And Congress has not been
interested in taking these up. I think
on on single family rentals, you know,
they just tried and failed to get that
into the House version of this big
bipartisan housing bill last week. And
essentially, we're told pound sand by
the Republican uh financial services
committee chair. I think that that sort
of shows how a lot of this is going to
go. So, they may be things to talk about
in the same way that campaign policy
proposals generally serve as talking
points, but I don't think that they're
things that are going to happen. Tropin,
if the midterm elections is this White
House's northstar, the president's going
to be giving a lot of these speeches
like the State of the Union, like today
affordability in Georgia. Does that make
it less likely that he actually does
take the move to strike Iran?
>> At this point, I think they're pretty
committed to doing something in Iran. I
think it certainly matters for their
choice of targets and for their
conceptualization of what it is that
they're doing. you know, the sort of
bigger they go, the more they do
something that the Iranians might
perceive as an existential threat to the
regime, the greater risk that the
Iranians lash out and sort of do the
kind of maximal escalatory uh options in
terms of striking regional energy
infrastructure potentially trying to
close the street. So, you know, if
you're concerned about energy prices,
and I think they are, that militates in
favor of doing less, not more. Not that
it's going to be purely symbolic or
completely fake action, but I think
we're not necessarily going to see, you
know, if the president's being presented
with a range of options in the situation
room, I don't think he's going to go
right to the top of the list. And I
think that those energy price concerns
are part of that consideration.
>> When it comes to also the concerns when
it comes to affordability, the press
secretary yesterday was asked about what
happened to the $2,000 checks and
there's no update there. What do you see
this administration potentially
implementing before November, or are we
done on the fiscal policy front? On the
fiscal policy front, I feel strongly
that we are done. I do not think there
is going to be another reconciliation
bill, which would be the vehicle for
doing anything that has a fiscal
dimension to it. So those direct to
consumer stimulus checks or anything
fiscal in the housing space like the
capital gains exemptions that the
president endorsed last year or a big
increase in defense funding or some of
these healthcare reforms that they
talked about when the bipartisan talks
on ACA subsidy extension collapsed. I
just don't think that they have the
votes for that. I don't think that they
have the consensus uh around that and
it's really never been done before. I
mean, no reconciliation bill this
century has been passed in a midterm
year without a lot of work done the year
before. No one's ever started with a
blank sheet of paper in February and
gotten a fiscal bill done on a partyline
basis in a midterm year. So, you know,
again, I think there there are some
things that they could try to run on
essentially promises they could make
that are an anchor for the campaign from
a communications perspective, but I
don't think any of that is actually
coming through in terms of incremental
stimulus. One of the president's major
policies is going to be on display
potentially tomorrow with the Supreme
Court having an opinion day. What's your
expectation?
>> Yeah. So, uh, people have anticipated
that we were on the eve of a decision
before and and been wrong, but it is
once again the talk around town.
>> Yes, we've cleared out multiple days so
far this year to potentially respond to
tariff rulings that have not come. Uh,
but yes, tomorrow is a decision day. It
is being closely watched. I think a lot
of folks around DC are expecting it to
come through. Uh we do expect the
Supreme Court to rule against the
tariffs, but I think probably applying
that ruling only prospectively. So
precluding refunds for some reason, I
think the legal argument for that's
pretty thin. But from a consequentialist
perspective, they're not going to want
to cause that level of retrospective
disruption. And if that's right, if it's
just a prospective ruling, I don't think
it has a huge uh impact in actual
economic terms. You know, we might get a
knee-jerk kind of equities higher, bonds
lower market reaction as folks are
digesting it, but the prospective tariff
relief looks very modest to us given the
the options that the president has for
reconstituting these tariffs under other
authorities.
>> Tobin, I've got 30 seconds left. What
kind of president would that set because
ultimately the message is if you're
doing something that's close to the
line, go big. Do it so large that they
can't unwind it.
>> Yeah. Uh I I agree that is a challenging
precedent. I I mean ultimately one of
the strange elements of this entire
thing is that we have always believed
that there are authorities under which
the president could have done what he
has done you know pretty much under
section 338 uh that's just on slightly
firmer legal footing than IPA and so I
think that's the challenge if this were
something that he had no authority to do
under any kind of statute then I think
it would put the court in a a different
position but in a situation where
they're saying you couldn't use IPA to
do these tariffs but there are other
tools that you could have used I think
that makes it that much less you know,
appealing to order $150 billion in
pre-s.
>> So, Marcus,
>> three days no losses on the S&P 500 for
the first time so far this month. Equity
futures pulling back just a little bit.
We're down by two ten of 1% on the S&P.
On the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.3. In the
bond market, twos, tens, and 30s look
like this. Repric at the front end of
the curve with yields higher in the last
24 hours. up another single basis point
this morning. 3:46.99
encouraged by some hawkish Fed speak in
the Fed minutes just yesterday. The next
stop for this debate is the data. It's 1
hour away. Jobless claims just around
the corner. Before we get to all of
that, let's get you some single names
and morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's the company where
expectations were high, reaching a
trillion dollars in market cap and then
Walmart disappoints specifically with
its forward guidance. the CEO talking
about a fluid dynamic backdrop in terms
of macro trade issues, labor issues, all
of that weighing on a company that does
usually give a conservative outlook to
start the year. But of course, everyone
will extrapolate what this means for the
wider consumer. Walmart in the meantime
down three and a half% in the
pre-market. On the flip side of that,
deer reporting earnings beating on
expectations, saying that the bottom has
happened. 2026 will be the recovery in
small agriculture. uh they see a
positive view forward 5.7% even though
one of their big competitors CNH
Industrial said uh-uh the bottom's not
here yet. We're only going to recover in
2027. So a very different view uh from
this agricultural exposed company uh for
equipment. Finally, eBay also a strong
set of earnings today and with that they
are buying Depop. It's an online
marketplace specifically catered to a
younger audience and you got to say it
is a deal they're getting it for.
They're paying $1.2 2 billion for it
from Etsy. Etsy had paid 1.6 billion
from it. Etsy still rallying though uh
with offloading that asset. So 21.3% for
Etsy and eBay is up 7.7% in the
pre-market. John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, Walmart shares
falling in the pre-market. The retail
giant delivering a beat on earnings but
issuing a cautious forecast. The company
CFO telling us here at Bloomberg, it's
prudent to be somewhat measured with the
outlook right now. That name, as Danny
said, is down about 3% in early trading.
Elsewhere, the Justice Department
sounding the alarm on a potential Warner
Brothers Discovery sale. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that antitrust
lawyers fear a deal with Netflix or
Paramount could have a lasting impact on
cinemas. And finally, Mark Zuckerberg
taking the stand in a landmark social
media addiction trial. Meta CEO
testifying that users are spending
significant time on the platforms due to
its value. Zuckerberg adding that
enforcing age limits remains a major
hurdle for the tech giant. This is a
huge landmark case and not just could
have implications for Facebook, Meta,
Instagram, those, but also what's going
on with YouTube and other when it comes
to social media platforms faced
challenging inquiries before from
Congress. Now he's facing it in front of
a jury and basically he's saying his
argument is it's not addictive and it's
really hard for us to control who's
going to look at this. The thing is I
think it's obvious that social media is
quite addictive. I I feel like mo most
of the juryy's going to agree with that.
So, they need to really prove that they
were not trying to make it ch harder uh
more easier for these young especially
young individuals. I think a lot of this
based off a nine-year-old girl that
suffered mental health issues because of
this.
>> It's shocking. It's really sad.
>> It's really sad what's going on. Um and
a lot of emails are being brought
forward from employees at Meta saying we
should do more to try to protect young
children. This is going to be a
challenging one. A lot of eyes are on
Mark Zuckerberg.
>> It's why for so many people they love
the stock but hate the company.
>> Yeah,
>> that's the problem. They have a
difficult relationship with Meta and
it's a dark cloud that's hanged over the
name for quite a while. Let's turn back
to Walmart following the retail giants
disappointed forecast. Punam Gaul of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Pam, welcome to the program.
Missou just published and we'll catch up
with David Bellinger later on this
morning. He's interpreting this the
conservative guide as an expected low
bar set for the new CEO's first year. Is
that how you're interpreting things?
>> Yes, I would agree with that. And I
think, you know, Walmart historically,
not just because of the new CEO, does
set the bar low and increase as you
progress. You know, they've always kept
a cautious stance on the consumer. And
given where we are in 2026, where there
are inflationary pressures and there is
an uncertain macro backdrop, it seemed
prudent for them to start conservatively
and we expect them to increase as the
year unfolds unless the consumer regains
materially from here. put them a lot of
economists are using this name and these
earnings for a read on the economy at a
difficult time. But this company has
changed. This is not just a trade dad
story anymore. It's so much more than
that. But what is this company now and
does it deserve a multiple of 50?
>> Well, that's arguable. A multiple of 50
is above where Amazon is currently
trading. You know, I think what
investors are rewarding Walmart for is
the growth that it's had in its online
business. Today, its online business is
over a hundred billion dollars. it
scaled up very quickly since the
pandemic. The growth is pretty
phenomenal, over 20% um in the latest
quarter. So, they're definitely gaining
share in the online vertical. They are
becoming somewhat of a tech retail
player. Not to say that they are Amazon,
you know, they don't have AWS, but the
online vertical is clearly gaining
traction and they're being rewarded for
that. Should they be at 50 times to
answer your question, you know, that's
still to be seen. They are currently
there but I think the market you know at
that level expects more from them and
expects them to continue to outperform.
>> Stock is down by 3% in the pre-market
which is nothing given the rally we've
seen over the past few years. Pam thank
you Pam G there of blue bank
intelligence. I mentioned David
Bellinger who joined the program from
Muo at about 8:15 Eastern time. So about
40 minutes from now. Let's stick with
the consumer. Bank of America's latest
checkpoint showing that households
remain adaptive and financially stable
overall in the face of significant
affordability challenges. The Bank of
America head of consumer and small
business products and analytics, Mary
Heinstro, joins us now for more. Mary,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've got a new product that we need to
talk about. So, let's start there. No
fee rewards program. Get us into it.
What is it?
>> Great. Well, we're so excited. We are
launching BFA Rewards on May 27th, which
is a no fee loyalty program that rewards
and recognizes our clients for their
entire financial lives. And this is
super exciting because it only requires
having a personal checking account. No
minimum average balance required and
unlocks all sorts of benefits.
>> So some of people might say that you're
just responding to political pressure
from the White House because they would
like to cap interest rates and this is a
new program. It's a PR effort. How does
this actually fit into a broader
strategy for the bank?
>> Absolutely. We've been working on this
for a very long time. We have a
industry-leading program today,
Preferred Rewards. It requires 20,000 in
average daily balances across your
deposit and investment accounts in order
to get access. We saw an opportunity to
modernize and expand this program. The
program existed for about 10 years. So
now we're launching BFA rewards that's
accessible to anyone with a personal
checking account. And what this enables
you to do is get boosts on your credit
card identity and fraud protection
services as well as you your financial
lives grow. you move into higher tiers
where you unlock more rewards and get
access to things like experiences. So,
it's all part of our strategy to start
with getting the core operating account
for our clients and then deepening from
there.
>> By removing the $20,000 minimum, are you
expecting that potentially this means
more people are going to flock to Bank
of America because they like the idea of
this new rewards program? Is that the
goal?
>> Absolutely. The goal is twofold. One,
we'll bring more people into the program
and they get to experience the benefit
of being with Bank of America. And then
secondly, doing more with us as they
have major milestones in their lives.
Buying a car, getting a mortgage on a
home, we have benefits for all of those
things. And it ensures that our clients
really do everything with their
financial lives with us.
>> We just spoke about Walmart. they're
guiding a little bit on the lower end
behing the street in terms of what they
were expecting for the consumer. How are
you seeing the consumer hold up in the
credit card world? We see the consumer
um to continue to be really resilient.
We saw spend up 2.6% in January across
our debit and credit card over over 50
clients that we have. And when you look
at how they're spending, they're still
planning vacations, but they are making
tradeoffs in order to handle some of the
affordability issues. We actually see
big box retailers like Walmart having
actually higher growth than the overall
growth rate because they're making those
choices.
>> The premium card segment is super super
competitive. Where do you think that's
going now? Yeah, there's a lot a lot of
buzz around the premium card segment and
certainly there is a segment of upper
end more affluent clients that really
love those benefits because it really
creates an ecosystem in addition to
getting the miles and the points you're
also getting access to experiences and
other things which is similar to how we
thought about BFA rewards is it's not
just about points and miles it's about
how do you make sure that they're
getting to unlock value across every
aspect of their life. We're addressing
the two legs of the cake, the premium
end and the lower end. And you're
attempting to do something around both.
What I noticed in the consumer
checkpoint report that came out from the
Bank of America Institute was just how
much the middle income workers in this
country are beginning to be squeezed.
How are you handling that from a product
perspective? What are you offering at
the moment?
>> Yeah, I mean it it really is
interesting. We have been seeing that
shake Kshaped economy with the higher
income and lower income and now we're
seeing the middle income had 1.6% 6%
wage growth versus the higher at 3.7%.
So certainly um a divergence and we have
a variety of tools at Bank of America to
offer our clients assistance with
affordability. We have even things like
balance assist a small $500 loan for a
flat fee of $5 for three months. We also
have low frills credit card a low fee
checking account. So we ensure that
we're really there to support them. And
one of the benefits of being a member of
the Bank of America rewards program is
that it unlocks interest rate discounts
on things like mortgages, home equity
loans, and all those things can help
make life more affordable.
>> Those tools that people can access when
they get into a stressful times. Are you
seeing an uptick in that recently? How's
it trending?
>> I mean, that's what I know there's a lot
of uh headlines.
>> That's why I asked.
>> Yeah. Or even the concern about the
future. But what we look at at BFA is
the actual data. And what we're seeing
is that uh the number of people who are
paying their credit card off card off in
full is actually higher than it was in
2019. And there's plenty of credit
available on people's line so that if
they do get into a bind, they have an
opportunity to use access to credit in
order to manage it. And we're seeing
them spend planned vacations. Sure,
they're going to discount grocery
stores. They're not dining out as much,
but their spending and their share of
discretionary spend to their overall
spend is really consistent with what we
saw in 2019.
>> And you're seeing that even for the
lower income cohort on the K.
>> Yes. And they're certainly they're
having the smallest amount of wage
growth at 0.9% in January, which is
still growth. We got to remember they're
still making more. It helps as things
get more expensive, but they're the ones
that are faced with 30% increase in
groceries since 2019. And so you're
having to make choices, but they're
behaving really responsibly. We do think
um tax refunds will help with the lower
income. Our Bank of America research
anticipates a 25% increase in refunds
that will help provide not only a little
cushion put in your deposit account, but
also enable them to pay down some of
their debt
>> and pay some utility bills, particularly
in the Northeast. I knew you were going
to say the numbers are absolutely
ridiculous.
>> When I looked at the CPI print, the
electricity prices going up is out of
control. Ivan the Kay was saying how
much of basically how much basically is
like it already your tax refund is
already going to your electricity
supplier and also beef prices very
challenging right now they are up big
time
>> getting super expensive Mary it's good
to see you thanks for dropping by nice
to get some actual data away from just
the broad narrative that we often
discuss on the program Mary he ro there
of bank of America if you're just
joining us welcome equities recovering
we're off session lows we're down by
about 210 of 1% on the S&P with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Shares of Carvana are falling
nearly 10% in the pre-market. The online
used car retailer reporting earnings
that fell short of analyst estimates.
Carvana has been growing quickly by
buying cars and acquiring new car
dealerships. Those moves boosted used
car sales, but its margin fell a
percentage point from a year ago.
Meanwhile, Bill Gates backing out of a
speech at a high-profile AI summit in
India just hours before he was due to
speak. In a post on X, the Gates
Foundation saying it wants to ensure the
focus remains on the conference. It
comes, of course, as Gates has been
criticized for his ties to Epstein. He's
called the relationship with the late
sex offender a huge mistake.
And OpenAI is close to finalizing the
first phase of a new funding round
that's is expected to bring in more than
100 billion dollars. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the overall valuation
of the company, including the eventual
funding, could exceed $ 850 billion. The
first portion of the funding will
largely come from strategic investors
including Amazon, Soft Bank, Nvidia, and
Microsoft. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the case for
hiking rates. The assumption is
everything will slow down by mid year.
Inflation will come down. The economy
will slow. But if it doesn't, I think it
would be fair to start talking about
rate hikes.
>> We'll start talking about it with Terry
Weisman of McQuary from New York City.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
The opening about 1 hour and 44 minutes
away going into the cash open. Equity
futures pulling back by about a tenth of
1%. No drama here. We're down a quarter
on the NASDAQ. A stock to watch in a
pre-market is Walmart. A conservative
guy from the company. Conservative
language coming from the seauite as
well. The CFO telling us here at
Bloomberg that we think it's prudent to
be somewhat measured with the outlook
right now as we have been. The stock is
down by more than 3%. We'll catch up
with Missouo in about 30 minutes from
now. The analyst community believes that
the conservative guide is more about
setting the bar sufficiently low enough
for a new incoming CEO.
>> Set it low and then potentially later in
the year you can always raise it. So why
not have this conservative outlook? What
is interesting though is there's a whole
lot of the year to go in what's still
pretty fluid dynamic macro backdrop. You
have to think they're thinking about the
policy uncertainty coming out of
Washington. potentially were there for
the peak tariffs, but even that could be
complicated tomorrow if we get a Supreme
Court decision that strikes down on EPA
and then it's months of well, what kind
of tariffs are we going to see? We know
they're going to be in place, but what
are actually the fine print details on
them?
>> That chart has been largely one-way
traffic up and to the right. It's had a
really nice run and it's got a very fat
multiple. We'll discuss the valuation
case in about 30 minutes from now. And
Savvance this morning, we'll discuss the
case, the hiking rates.
The assumption is everything will slow
down by midyear. Inflation will come
down. The economy will slow. But if it
doesn't and it continues on the
trajectory that we've been on for the
last 3 or four or 5 months and inflation
stays sticky around 3%, I think it would
be fair to start talking about rate
hikes. So here's the latest this
morning. Minutes of the latest Fed
minutes showing a hawkish tilt. Several
committee members considering hiking
rates due to sticky inflation. Terry
Weisman of Mcquaryy writing, "The case
for a rate cut was very weak already. It
wasn't completely unexpected that the
minutes lean to the hawkish side." Terry
joins us now for more. Terry, good
morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Is there a case for a hike?
>> There is a case for hawkishness. Now,
whether that translates into a hike or
not, it certainly will not happen in the
next few months. If there is going to be
a hike, it's going to be a little bit
further down the line this year, maybe
in the fourth quarter. But let's talk
why about why there's a case for
hawkishness, if not a hike. Optically,
this is an economy, the US economy that
has not seen inflation at target for
five years. I mean, we have been
persistently above that target. The
other reason, of course, optically again
is that the unemployment rate is very
low. If you consider what the Fed's two
uh mandates are, there is no basis for
for not being cautious, which can
translate as rhetorical hawkishness, as
it did in the minutes. Uh so that's the
case effectively for a hike if you want
to stretch it, but it's certainly the
case for hawkishness without even the
stretch. Uh keep in mind the re one of
the reasons we weren't surprised uh even
going into the meeting on January 29th
that this would be a hawkish outcome at
least rhetorically including from the
presser that uh uh chair Powell gave on
that day was that the composition of the
FOMC changed at the turn of the year as
it always does. Four members left and
four members came in. And if you look at
the disposition of the four members that
came in, marginally more hawkish than
the four members that came out or more
cautious certainly. So this is not a
surprise um uh that there was a a tone
in the minutes that stressed the need to
maybe even do away with the with the
dovish bias implicit in the policy
outlook. Um uh yeah, this is this is uh
this is the case effectively.
>> To your point, they're managing the
optics. They're also setting us up
potentially for a prolonged pause. Do
you believe that pause expires with new
leadership at the halfway point?
>> So this this is the the market certainly
believes that it expires. Right? If you
if you look at the look at the forward
curve right now in in the money markets
in the US in the in in uh overnight
index uh products, it is suggesting that
the Fed is going to cut twice. How can
you suggest that the Fed is going to cut
twice when they just came out with
fairly cautious/hawkish minutes when
inflation is still above the target and
when the unemployment rate is very low?
The only conclusion that one can draw
from looking at that curve is that the
market expects that there will be a
structural break in the nature and
disposition of the of the median opinion
on the FOMC upon the change in the
chairmanship. That's the only way that I
can square that circle.
>> Yesterday, Noriel Rubini was on with
John and Lisa and he was talking about
how the Fed is not an absolute monarch
and Worsh needs to convince the rest of
the committee. Can he convince the rest
of the committee?
>> The market certainly believes that he
can. That there there is there is no way
I can explain that that implied 50 basis
points of cuts this year without the
presumption that the market is making
that Worsh can convince the committee.
Worsh does have help on the committee.
Obviously, he has uh Chris Waller at the
very least. uh potentially Michelle
Bowman who would look things his way
when it comes to cutting. I want to make
the case though that there is a an
intellectual basis for a cut as well
just as we just discussed an
intellectual basis for a for a potential
uh uh hike. Uh and that is the case that
that Kevin Walsh has been making which
is that let's not look at the data.
Let's not look at these optics. Let's
just wonder about and think about what
the implications of uh deregulation will
be on the economy. what the implications
of the AI AI revolution will be on the
economy, potentially what the
implications of reverse migration will
be, but the first two things are the
most important. The debate at the Fed
going forward, and the decision it will
make will probably turn on what the
median voter thinks about the AI
revolution that is going to get a lot
more uh um uh talk. There's going to be
a lot more bandwidth at the Fed
intellectually about what the long-term
implication of this will be for
inflation for employment.
>> What do you think? Do you think it's
inflationary or disinflationary?
>> So, I think it's inflationary in the
short term, but obviously the promise of
a disinflationary trend in the long term
once the investment is in place and it's
deployed is there. I think the people
who are being cautious right now, even
with respect to AI, let alone the optics
of low unemployment and and high
inflation, are being hawkish because
they actually believe that there could
be an additional inflationary impulse in
the economy over the next few months in
view of all of the investment spending.
Now, we're obviously we're already
seeing the effects of AI implicitly in
the CPI. It's one of the reasons why
electricity prices are high. So, there
is a case to be made for the short term.
I think I think the doves though the
structural doves are also saying hey
let's not even if inflation is high in
the short term let's not worry about
that because the benefit of running the
economy hot for a while in terms of the
investment that you get in AI will pay
off in spades down the road with the
disinflation it's going to create and
the inflation you have to tolerate now
is the price you have to pay for the
revolution uh that we're going to see in
the next few months. That's another
intellectual argument. This is deeply
sophisticated stuff. So, forgive me for
trying to make this very simple, but
foreign exchange. Is the bull case for
the dollar rebuilding given everything
you've just said at least in the short
term?
>> Uh, not really. U because in part the
bull case on the dollar was not so much
based on what the Fed was going to do.
It was also based on where the value
where the dollar is in valuation terms,
which is still very expensive from a
long-term historical perspective. And
the other uh uh case for for dollar
weakness, if you will, was the idea that
the US was disengaging from the rest of
the world. And this would attenuate, it
would start to fray the view of the US
dollar as as the reserve currency and
the international medium of exchange. If
the US re-engages with the rest of the
world, I think there's a better case for
a strong dollar there than with respect
to what the Fed is going to do. And I
will highlight that Marco Rubio's speech
uh this past weekend could be that turn
of events could mark that turn of events
that makes the US re-engage with the
rest of the world.
>> So is Marco Rubio dollar bullish and JD
Vance is dollar bearish? I that's not a
bad way to think about it. Uh I I I
guess what we're I guess what you need
to consider here is whether or not Marco
Rubio has uh managed to undo all the the
consternation that uh the US received
over the past year uh from from its
enemies, from its allies, from it from
its Urswile allies, from its future
allies, etc. Uh it's hard to say. We're
watching the situation. Uh but we want
to see if if uh if the administration
takes Marco Rubio's words to heart.
Alisa made the point that maybe the
substance wasn't too different, but the
star certainly was. Did you have a
different interpretation?
>> I thought the substance was slightly
tweaked than we heard from JD Vance, but
mostly I agree with that. He came there
with a message and also the message was
kind of like, well, we're going to talk
the toughest to our partners because we
want you to be along for the ride of
what we see the vision of the world. So,
the style is definitely different and
that's like on the stage and also behind
the scenes as well.
>> Terry, good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, sir.
Terry Wisman there. We're talking about
2028 trades already. I can't get to 28.
>> I've said a very long road.
>> I can't get to next week at the moment.
>> It's challenging. I mean, I really had
this moment where I was thinking about
this when I was in Venezuela because I'm
sitting in this country, which I never
thought last year I'd be in in their oil
fields. And I said, just six months
weeks ago, six weeks ago, the captured
their leader and now we're with that
leader's number two, who's basically
feels like she has a gun to her head to
deliver for this government. It's wild.
That feels like years ago already.
Futures this morning down by about 210
of 1%. No drama at this point of the
session. Coming up in the next hour,
we'll catch up with Chris Feron of
Strategus, David Bellinger of Missouo,
Nita Richardson of ADP, and Dan Flex of
Newberg at Burman. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
spending in the AI related names is now
eating up a lot of the free cash flow.
>> Investors are so bullish on profit
expectations. They just want capex to
slow down a bit.
>> There will be winners and losers like
there are. But the whole idea of a whole
industry going away is crazy. There's
just a tremendous amount of dissonance
right now. Tech deserves the benefit of
the doubt.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equities
slightly lower, declining by 2% on the
S&P. We're down by.3 on the NASDAQ 100.
Down by a third also on the Russell. In
the bond market, bouncing off year-to-
date lows over the past few sessions.
yields higher, particularly at the front
end of the curve. A band of the basis
point approaching 350 once again driven
higher by some hawkish Fed speak in the
recent Fed minutes. Elsewhere, looking
for a read on the US economy in about 29
minutes time. We'll look to jobless
claims. We had some data earlier and the
data came from a company Walmart with a
cautious guide for the year ahead. The
stock is lower by about 4/10en of 1% and
recovering in the past few minutes.
>> Yeah, it missed its higher expectations.
I think you've been bringing up this
point of the context that's mattered.
How much has this stock have been
rallying over the course of the past few
years year especially just going up and
up? Bloomberg intelligence comes out
that says lower than expected fiscal
2026 guidance may indicate that Walmart
expects consumers to remain under
pressure as well as trade and labor
concerns and that's what we heard from
the seauite. There's a lot of year to go
through and there's still a lot of m the
big macro backdrop concerns that
potentially may be an issue for Walmart
which is why they're in this fluid
dynamic right now and they're saying
don't get ahead of your horses right
now.
>> Consumers will be focused on energy
prices. We are too. Brent crude this
morning up by another 1.4% north of 71
following the biggest one-day move we've
seen on crude since October and the
highest level for Brent since July. This
on Iran. Axios reporting in the last 24
hours the following. The Trump
administration is closer to a major war
in the Middle East than most Americans
realize it could begin very soon.
>> And the Telegraph came out with some
news this morning. Say the US is ready
to begin a war in Iran by Saturday. The
president has been told. So basically by
Saturday they'll have all the military
hardware in place if they were to
decide. The president was to decide now
is the time to strike. And that is why
you see oil prices rise. RBC's Helim
Croft came out with a a note overnight
talking about her recent trip to the
region. And what are her sources telling
her? What would Iran do back?
Immediately go after energy facilities
and infrastructure, potentially close
their straight up Hermoose, go after
these tankers that are in the region.
That means higher oil prices. That means
higher gasoline prices. That means a
potential headache for this White House.
>> We spent some time on this throughout
this morning that this is not the
president's playbook. The president's
playbook is targeted, fast, clear,
objective in mind that leads to
deescalation. We've spoken to multiple
guests about that throughout this
morning. This feels so different, which
makes it people believe makes it less
likely. Does it make it less likely?
>> I'm not sure if it makes it less likely
only because the president's been very
clear that if there is no deal, he will
take matters into another direction.
Kinetic. And what this administration
wants is three red lines. It's not just
nuclear. its intercontinental ballistic
missiles as well as its funding to the
proxies in the region. I don't see Iran
coming to the table and being able to
give a solution with this regime on all
three of those right now.
>> Crude, we're on top of that story this
morning. Brain crude 7139. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Chris
Feron of Strategus with stocks coming
off three days of stability. David
Bellinger of Missouo with Walmart shares
falling on weaker than expected guidance
and Nila Richardson of ADP breaking down
the latest round of jobless claims.
Those jobless claims 26 minutes away. We
begin this hour with the latest stock
rally on pause as markets search for
direction. Chris Verona Strategus, a bad
company, writing, "The trouble often
comes when the level of investor
optimism is no longer validated by what
the market has delivered." Chris joins
us now for more. Chris, welcome to the
show, buddy. Thanks for jumping on. Do
you think that's the moment we're in
right now? Is that this moment, a moment
of trouble? Yeah, listen, I I think when
you look at sentiment right now, it's a
little tricky because the question that
we have is are people optimistic on what
was working for much of the last couple
years or are they optimistic on what is
working? And it's a question of what do
they own, what do they not own? And when
you look at really what's driving this
market, certainly, you know, we've
talked about equal weight over capweight
and the Q's not working and it's stocks
like Dow and Boeing. Is that really the
stuff people own right here? So, I'm a
little bit skeptical of the sentiment
data here. I don't think investors are
as uh exuberant as maybe some of the
surveys might suggest. And remember, the
trailing six-month return on the S&P is
up about 6% right now. Um, so there
should be some level of optimism because
the market wants to be justified by kind
of what the attitudes are. So, I still
think we're okay on the sentiment front,
but certainly deserves some watching
moving forward.
>> Chris, let's watch what's working right
now. Let's pick out a couple of spots in
this equity market. The airlines have
started to pick up. I've noticed that
we've got Delta up 8% this month. We've
got United up by double digits. We
talked about the restaurant names
throughout the week as well. Starting to
see some performance in a part of the
market which was left behind in the last
12 months. Chris, are you noticing the
same thing and how much weight would you
put on those moves?
>> Yeah, we are. We actually wrote about it
this morning kind of this tension
between what you're seeing from energy
and crude at the same time. It really
hasn't hit the travel stocks. Um,
airlines trade well, hotels continue to
trade well. I mean, with uh within our
work, the travel space has really been
the firmer part of consumer
discretionary. That remains the case
right now. Even look at the crew stocks,
which, you know, you would think would
be very oil sensitive. They've actually
acted great uh over the last couple of
weeks, even as oil has moved higher. So,
I do like that message. I'm not sure how
long though you can kind of have energy
and oil working simultaneously with
discretionary. I I do think at some
point the market's going to have to make
a call here.
>> Do you want to make a call this morning
on that?
>> Yeah. Well, listen, I I think when you
look internally, energy is in stronger
condition than discretion, right? We're
talking about 90% plus of the energy
sector above the 200 day moving average.
We're a trend follower, so we defer to
the better trends. That is still energy
here. They they probably are short-term
overbought. Um I think if you got some
event uh in Iran actually the stocks
might actually consolidate or correct on
that just given how much they've moved
uh in advanced but they are in pretty
good uh longer term condition
particularly compared to discretionary.
I think what people forget about
discretionary is you know the decade of
consumer or the 15 years of consumer was
really you know 2009 through 2020. Um
the last four or five years on a
relative basis discretionary really
hasn't made a lot of progress. So, I'm
just not really sure we're in the
consumer decade here.
>> So, this is really important, Chris, as
people start to explore some kind of
cyclical rotation. The bits of that
rotation you feel a little bit more
confident about versus the parts of the
rotation you feel less confident about.
Can you just flesh that out for us?
>> Yeah, I I think the question that we're
wrestling with is is the leadership
sufficiently defensive or late cycle
enough where we ought to get kind of
more concerned about what could happen
from here? not what will happen from
here but what could happen from here and
kind of what we always say is you know
doing macro is trying to understand how
wide that gap is between what could
happen uh and what should happen. Um
when I look at the leadership uh right
now there are certainly defensive
elements running through it uh you know
with with staples and to some degree
health uh healthcare uh and utilities
but the industrials are still really
strong. I think discretionary as we said
on margin is still in decent condition.
the banks are still okay, but we're on
bit of a kind of a nice edge in terms of
which way this ultimately breaks. Uh our
work, you know, when you kind of look at
the bigger picture, still says economic
growth is generally okay. So, I do still
lean more in the direction of
cyclicality here over defensives. You've
had a very big move in staples over the
last, you know, month or two. Uh I might
be backing away from that here, not
chasing it.
>> Chris, when it comes to what could
happen, can we just get your assessment
of what happened with the Fed minutes?
Do you think a hike is potentially on
the table this year?
>> No, I think there's absolutely, you
never say zero uh in this business, but
I think there's as close to zero%
probability of a hike uh this year. I'd
be going out in the market and buying,
you know, December 26. So, for here, um
I I I think there's still continued
likelihood that you'll get more cuts
than expected uh in the new wars. So, if
the hikes you think are off the table,
is the bar though higher for those cuts
you're expecting from Kevin Worsh?
>> I don't know. Let's watch the two-year
yield. Uh the two-year yield, as we've
always said in our work, I mean, who
needs Fed speakers when you can look at
the two-year yield every day. We're
about 24 hours removed from 339 or 340
uh on twos. I think they're headed to
3%. Which would be, you know, a 50 to 75
basis point gap between where the upper
and lower bound of Fed funds is. That
tells me, you know, two cuts, maybe
three uh into the back half of the year.
That's where I am. I think that's where
the market is, which I care more about.
Um and I think ultimately that's that's
what we'll get. It's interesting, Emory,
how these, you know, rate sensitive
cyclicals have firmed here. Uh look at
the REITs, look at some of the housing
stocks. I think the um XHP, the housing
ETF, made a 52- week high last week.
You've seen some improvement in all the
housing related derivatives. So I think
the housing stocks have figured this out
as well.
>> Chris, just on the bond market, did 10
tens come along for the ride if you've
got twos to three? Where have you got
the curve?
>> Yeah, you know, this is kind of the big
debate in our work. We've been uh team
steepener for basically two years. I
mean, we're trend followers and the
trend was up uh in the curve. I do think
there's been enough changes globally in
the last few weeks, particularly out of
Japan where we've actually seen some
pretty abrupt flattening where, you
know, at a minimum, I want to be open to
the idea that the steepener is starting
to transition into something else. I
don't know how much flattening you're
going to get. Uh but I do wonder if the
best days of the steepener are probably
behind us uh at this point. Uh twos and
30s. Um if you look at that spread has
come in here pretty good. But, you know,
pay attention. The way the Japanese
market responded to these elections, you
know, 7 8 9 days ago, I I thought was
really telling what was the consensus
expectation that if LDP had a big night,
you'd get yen weaker and you'd get long
rates in Japan higher. And the exact
opposite happened. And anytime in this
business, the opposite happens relative
to what the consensus expects. Our
antenna goes up. We're just trying to,
you know, carve out what the nuance of
markets is. And I think that that was a
very very meaningful message out of
Japan the last 7 8 nine days.
>> So Chris, I'm with you because this is
important for the 10ear maturity right
here in the United States. What is
actually driving us lower? Now you've
identified forces coming out of Japan.
Is it just that or are we picking up on
maybe an economic story that's turning
out to be less strong as people
anticipated?
>> I think it's more the former. Uh I'm
certainly open to it being the latter.
uh that would be against our call but
again at the end of the day we're not
dogmatic with our views that the market
changes uh will change. Um it does get
difficult to justify let's say 10ear
yields much below 390 if we're still in
this you know robust nominal or real
growth uh uh environment. So kind of 385
390 would would would um kind of be my
line in the sand of when I would
entertain. Wait, wait a second. What is
the bond market really telling me about
the economy here?
>> Hey Chris, it's good to see you. Thanks
for jumping on.
>> Always great to see you. Thank you very
much. Chris Veron there of strategus on
the bond market just off the lows of the
year right now with tens back to about
4.1% yield by a couple of basis points.
The next stop for the conversation about
the economy about 20 minutes away around
20 minutes away when we get jobless
claims. Look out for that data in just a
moment. Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahihara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. The BBC reporting
former Prince Andrew has been arrested
on suspicion of misconduct in public
office. As of yet, Andrew has not been
charged with any crime and denies any
wrongdoing. King Charles releasing a
statement saying he is aware of the
situation and the quote, "The law must
take its course."
Meanwhile, here NEC Director Kevin
Hasset blasting a New York Fed study on
tariffs, calling it an embarrassment and
saying those behind it should be quote
disciplined. The report finding that
nearly 90% of the tariff burden in 2025
fell on US companies and consumers. Has
insists Americans will ultimately
benefit from the tariffs.
and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifying
during a landmark trial over social
media addiction, saying it's quote very
difficult to enforce Instagram's age
limits. Zuckerberg saying Meta has
introduced proactive tools to identify
and remove accounts used by children
under 13, but called it a challenging
problem due to people lying about their
age. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, we'll get
you some morning calls. Plus, we'll
catch up with David Bellinger of Missouo
with Walmart shares falling on weaker
than expected guidance. That
conservative guide sending Walmart
shares lower in the pre-market by around
2 to 3%. That conversation's up next
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
It's very difficult to get a a clear
read like on anything from the labor
market to consumer spending. But there
are some signals that uh consumer
spending is moderating. I think
consumers in particular which has been
the key engine behind economic growth
that will fade. That was Yolena Shelleta
of the Conference Board Wigh Wang on a
consumer. The data everything's in
conflict right now. The sentiment
numbers have been absolutely awful. The
GDP read has been pretty good, pretty
solid. It's become less labor intensive
though, which speaks to the muted
payrolls growth of the last 12 months or
so. And then you hear from Bank of
America and they just go to the data and
they're telling you looking at the data
right now, the consumer still resilient,
they're still bullish on the outlook.
They said even the lower-end cohort of
the consumers, the lower Kshape of this
recovery we're seeing in this economy
are still coming out and spending and
paying off their bills for the most
part. What was interesting though is we
heard from Bank of America. They do see
some of the spending changing. Consumers
are being more choiceful. I know you
hate that word, but that's what they're
doing.
>> I can't stand that word because it's
meaningless. I have less choices when
stress gets higher. And when they say
choiceful, it sounds like they've got
more choices. But you have less choices
if you've got less money.
>> You have to make you have to make more
serious decisions. Yes, you have to make
more decision.
>> Choiceful just sounds like Mackenzie
language to try and dress up something
bad. That's, you know, that's my view on
that word. Anyway, whatever. Futures
right now on the S&P negative by a third
of 1%. On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.5.
On the Russell, small cap's down by 0.4.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Goldman
upgrading eBay to neutral following its
earnings report, pointing to strong
results that position the company for
durable growth. Your second call from JP
Morgan lowering its price target on
Carvana to 490 following its fourth
quarter profit miss. The analyst still
seeing little risk to forward estimates.
And finally, City cutting its price
target on Coohl's to 20 keeping a
neutral rating on the shares. Data
collected by Bloomberg projecting the
retailer to miss sales estimates when it
reports in the coming weeks. That name
is down by 610 of 1%. Let's stick with
retail. Walmart shares falling in the
pre-market after reporting earnings. The
company's fullear forecast underwhelming
investors citing a fluid macro backdrop
including uncertainty over trade and the
labor market. David Bellinger of Missouo
holding an outperform rating on Walmart
shares a 137 price target and writing
the following. We're interpreting this
as conservative and a well expected low
bar set for the CEO John Ferner's first
year. David joins us now for more.
David, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Is that all it is? Nothing more sinister
than that. Just set the bar low for the
new guy.
>> I think that's what it is. So, if you
want to compartmentalize today's
announcement, if you'll get the Q4
print, very much in line. You had US
same store sales up about 4.6%.
Solid print, pretty decent flow through.
There could have been a little bit more,
but I think the pre-market reaction
today is all about this guidance. Street
numbers are a little high. They still
seem very achievable, but this
essentially sets up the low bar for John
Ferner in his first year and potential
beaten raises as the year progresses.
>> The stock is down by 3%. Let's talk
about the high bar. The high bar is the
multiple a 50p and I wanted to spend
some time with you on that and then we
could talk about the the business and
the consumer but the multiple for you as
an analyst. How do you value this
company and how different is the story
over the last 20 years?
>> Yeah, in incredibly difficult
conversation on the the valuation piece
and Walmart is a very different company
today very digitally driven you have all
these accretive alternative business
lines you have this agentic upside as
well. So, the way I think about it, some
of these best-in-class consumer
compounders, you could trade anywhere 25
to 30 times forward earnings. You want
to tack on some premiums for Walmart.
You've got the Walmart Plus business,
membership business, very sticky. You
also have Sam's Club bundled in there. I
think each of those have about 30
million members. Those might be worth,
you know, two to four turns of the
multiple on top of that 30. And then
there's there's other pieces as well
with this advertising business. high
margin, that's really high growth.
You've seen the US advertising business
up 40% this quarter. And then on top of
these, think about that agentic upside
without the capex. We're we're talking a
lot about these hyperscalers spending
hundreds of billions, even trillions
over the next several years on capex to
build out all this AI infrastructure.
Walmart can essentially borrow that and
and ramp up their agentic shopping
without spending.
>> Let's stay on that. This is important.
How do they win AI without delivering
the kind of capex numbers that we're
seeing from the Amazons of this world?
>> Yeah, great question. This I think the
market is already calling Walmart as an
AI winner. They're they're well ahead of
the game with Agentic Shopping. This
hasn't taken off yet. Still very very
early stage, but what Walmart will do
is, you know, they'll pay a take rate to
ChatGpt or Google Gemini maybe 1% 2% on
the revenues that they facilitate. So
that that's the way those guys will
monetize. And Walmart doesn't have to
necessarily build out know the the rails
of agentic shopping. That's what
Google's
>> doing. Do they have the margins to give
away that level of revenue?
>> I think they do. And this is all about
volume. So in in general, retail is
always a pretty tight low margin
business, especially when you sell a lot
of groceries like Walmart does. But this
agentic piece, this could really ratchet
up the volumes and have Walmart catch up
to Amazon and even in a more meaningful
way than they've already done.
>> Well, that's what I wanted to ask. Where
does this put them in relation to
Amazon? Isn't Amazon best positioned for
this kind of environment
>> potentially? So the Amazon's stance on
Agentics has been a little bit guarded
so far. They they've been more walled
off. They have this Rufus shopping
agent, whereas if you look at Walmart, I
mean, they're more open. They have a
couple of big partnerships going right
now, and they're it's it's almost as if
all these retailers and brands are
pooling resources to go against Amazon
and finally fight back. And maybe the
agentic piece is the way to to sort of
bridge that divide, but it there there's
always a possibility that Amazon changes
their stance and doesn't have some kind
of partnership. There's there's some
news articles today about a potential,
you know, Amazon speaking with OpenAI
about about aic shopping. So, all this
could change very quickly. It's all
incredibly fluid.
>> What does a new CEO make of all of this?
Do you think he's doubling down on AI?
>> For sure. For sure. I think AI will be
one of John Ferner's big priorities.
Doug McMillan, great run at Walmart. He
essentially built the digital foundation
for this business. And now John Ferner
is going to come in here and accelerate
all the AI, all the cost savings plus
volume gains. And I I think we'll hear
more about that on on their call today.
>> That departure, that leadership change
felt abrupt. As an analyst who follows
the company, was it abrupt for you? And
what do you think was ultimately behind
that move? Yeah, it it did happen a
little sooner than I thought. I thought
Doug might have had another couple years
left at Walmart, but it he's going out
on a really high note here. The company
always does make a number of management
changes at year end. Not the CEO, but
that they they flipped around a few
positions, but it did seem like Doug is
handing off the keys at the right time.
Like he's he's positioned this business
really well. John Ferner will come in
and accelerate this.
>> At the right time for Doug or the right
time for John? both.
>> That's what I was saying.
>> As you were saying that, I was just
thinking, you know, 50 PE stock at a
record high seems pretty good for Doug.
>> Yeah,
Doug just missed the trillion dollar
market cap. If he stuck on another week,
he would hit it. But, of course, a very
high bar when you have, you know, a
trillion dollar market cap. One of the
few out there, one of these unicorns.
But
>> there's no reason why it can't keep
going. And there's there's a potential
for Walmart. They just guided $2.85 at
the high-end EPS. There's no reason that
can't be upwards of $4 in a few years. I
think a lot of people share that
sentiment which speaks to why the stock
is only down by 2 to 3% off the back of
this this morning. They're a winner in
your mind. I hear that and you're not
alone. Who are the losers?
>> Yeah. So, I think Walmart's taken shares
pretty widespread, but but in our view
some of the the companies that are going
headon with them mainly falls into a
target. So, Target's had a lot of issues
on the discretionary side. They've also
got a new CEO. They'll be hosting sort
of an analyst day in a couple weeks and
we'd like to hear their attack plan of
what they're going to go after. And
maybe it is grocery maybe that's what
gets you in Target gets the frequency of
purchasing a more weekly shopping trip
and then you wind up spending on all
that other discretionary stuff. But
they've they've got a pretty big uphill
battle here.
>> I'm just sensing from what you're saying
that you don't buy the turnaround story
because the stock started to bounce year
to date. You don't buy it?
>> Not yet. I want to hear more. The stocks
moved pretty strongly year-to- date.
It's up almost 20%. Not much has
changed. I mean, maybe some of the
spending over the last few weeks has
gotten a bit better. And then you have
uh some optimism around tax refunds. So,
I I think that's helped some of these
names have been beaten down and it's
it's skewed more to Target this year.
>> Does Target have an AI agent like
Walmart, Sparky?
>> So, they they've partnered with Chat
GPT. So that they're one of these early
adopters, but I I haven't heard as much
from Target on Agentic as as Walmart has
done so far.
>> Stocks flying. Target, as you say, up by
close to 20%, up by more than 18% year
today. It's quite a run. David, it's
good to see you. Thanks for dropping by.
David Binger there of Missouo seeing
this as a conservative forecast for
Walmart just to set the bar low enough
for the new guy going into the seauite.
>> That's nice, right? I think actually if
you're entering that kind of position
after Doug McMillan who's been there
forever and really was helming this
company, it's kind of nice to think,
okay, we're going to set the bar very
low, so at least I know I can clear it.
If that's what you're thinking, then you
want to buy on a dip like today
potentially.
>> Stock is down by two to 3% in the
pre-market. Futures are lower by 4/10 of
1%. We're close to session lows at the
moment. In just a moment, 5 minutes
away, we'll get jobless claims data and
we'll get reaction from Nita Richardson
of ADP. She joins us to break it down
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The open about 60 minutes away. We've
got futures a touch softer down by a
third of 1%. We are seconds away from
getting some jobless claims data and
more. We'll get to that in just a
second. The NASDAQ is negative by 0.5.
Walmart trading a bit softer in the
pre-market, down by anywhere between 2
to 3% off the back of a conservative
guide from that company. That company,
the stock until recently, it's been
trading at an all-time high. In the bond
market, Tuesday's 1030s look like this.
Yields drifting higher at the front end
of the curve. Twos higher by two basis
points to 347 as the data pours in. Mike
McKe has more. Hey, Mike. Very
interesting morning, John, with lots of
data. As you mentioned, jobless claims
come in a big drop, 26,000
for last week. That's down from the
initially reported 227. Uh continuing
claims are at 1,869,
slightly up from 1,862
in the initially reported last week's
figures. Uh we also have trade numbers
in the trade deficit for the month of
December 70.3 billion significantly
higher than the 53.0
billion reported for the month of
November. Add into that wholesale
inventories up 2/10 and retail
inventories flat on the month. uh those
are not particularly great numbers and
this it matters because these are the
last three data points that will go into
fourth quarter GDP that we will get
tomorrow and that trade deficit is going
to whack uh away at some of the strength
we have been seeing in that Atlanta Fed
uh GDP now number. Uh the other thing
that we want to look at is the
Philadelphia Fed. Uh they c the
Philadelphia Fed business index comes in
at 16.3 up from 12.6.
Uh the new orders index is at 11.7
versus uh 14.4. So that's down a little
bit. And uh prices paid 38.6
from 46.9. So a little bit better
business in the uh Philadelphia area,
but uh inflation drops and that'll be
seen as good news by those on the Fed
who yesterday were talking about rate
cuts as opposed to uh rate increases.
Mike, we'll spend some time on the jobs
data in just a moment, but this trade
data seems pretty wild relative to
expectations. Have you got a read on
what's driving this?
>> Well, exports were down by 5 billion
from the prior month and imports were up
by 12.3 billion. That's the reason we
see that big uh change. Uh interesting
on the imports. Uh we also have to
figure that that has a price impact down
the road if we're bringing in that many
imports. does subtract from growth. So,
uh not particularly good news, but uh
how does it affect inflation if many of
those goods are tariffed? We just don't
know uh yet. We will find that out as we
go along.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Some of this
can be very, very noisy. I'll pick out a
headline because there is a political
story in this and it's good exports to
Canada, the lowest since January 2022.
>> Yeah, that caught my eye as well. Is
this a tariff story? Is the fact that
we've been talking about this? What
we've seen in Canada is that they have
not liked this aggressive push from this
administration when it comes to trade
calling their former prime minister a
governor and are they just deciding to
boycott US goods good exports to Canada
lowest since January 2022 that's
shocking given the fact that this is our
neighbor to the north where think about
vehicles even to make a vehicle goes
across the border about six or half a
dozen times so this is really something
very interesting you look at the trade
data coming through
>> we still got Mike McKe with us Mike I
want to come back to you on the jobless
claims numbers because that's a big
downside surprise at 206 put together
with an upside surprise we saw on the
payrolls report. I just wonder Mike from
your perspective whether we can put a
bit more weight on this idea that things
have stabilized in the labor market and
maybe even they've started to improve.
>> Unfortunately what we're looking at is a
lot of secondary data right now. So it's
kind of hard to say one way or another.
Obviously with claims where they are, it
does suggest we're not seeing mass
layoffs. The Philadelphia Fed employment
index though falls to negative 1.3 from
positive 9.7. So there's evidence on
both sides of the argument that the
labor market is at least fragile if not
falling if not getting into trouble. Uh
but then you have the growth idea that
things are picking up a little bit. So
you know the the Fed is probably
balanced about as well as it can be
given the numbers on both sides of the
argument.
>> Mike, should we be happy with 206 or
should we discipline economists for
expecting 225? What do you think? Uh uh
well I think if you discipline the
economists you won't get as many um
estimates next month and so it won't be
quite as valid. So let's stick with
letting them do their job and and be
wrong. It's a possibility.
>> Why not? Mike, thank you sir. Appreciate
it. Mike McKe with the economic data.
Nita Richardson of ADP needs no
discipline. She joined us now for more.
Nita, good to see you.
>> Great. I'm glad to be exempt from that.
>> You should be. Everyone should be. Let's
talk about this data. How tight is this
labor market?
>> It's tight. But I'd like to turn our
attention away from the hard data and
the payroll data because I think what
we've done at ADP is capture sentiment.
And that sentiment kind of underscores
what's going on in the labor market. So
we track workers every month. And what
used to be a very optimistic workforce
is starting into this really discontent
workforce. In fact, they suggest that
survey suggests that we've gone from
stability to a feeling of stagnant. And
that is what I think is underscoring the
labor market. Ten the workers are
picking it up. This is a stagnant labor
market where most of the job gains are
coming from one sector. We're not seeing
it broad-based. And I think that is
spilling over to how workers are feeling
about their opportunities.
>> So just healthare and a bit of
education. Is that it?
>> That's pretty much it. And it's been
that way for you know the better part of
the year, more than a year. We haven't
seen this boost that is widespread in
pockets. We've seen leisure and
hospitality or financial services, but
it's yet to be sustained consistently
over a 12-month period. Only healthcare
is delivering.
>> So, I'm always interested in job
switches because I think job switches
tell you a lot about the state of the
labor market. If I can get more money
leaving my job, if I can get a job
elsewhere, that's when most workers are
actually feeling a little bit happier
about the situation. What's happening
with those trends at the moment?
>> I'm glad you asked. So, we're able to to
tell you that story with 15 million
workers that we can match through time.
Um, and what we're seeing for job
switchers relative to job stayers is
that the premium to switch jobs, the pay
growth that you actually see, the bump
in your paycheck has shrked uh to the
lowest point we've ever seen at 1.9%.
Now, to give you another number, during
2022 during the great resignation, that
was near 9%. huge gains in some in
industries, double-digit gains from
switching a job. We're not seeing that
anymore. If you're switching a job, it
may not be because of pay. It could be
because of co-workers or time or
schedules or bosses.
>> This tension, just to jump in, this
speaks to the tension. That doesn't
speak to a tight labor market. That's
where this is really confusing because
coming out of the pandemic, things were
tight. That's why you could get so much
money going somewhere else.
>> We have to redefine tightness in a
granular way. In some pockets of the
labor market, it is extremely tight. If
you look at, for example, the
occupations that are needed for data
center building, that is a tight labor
market. Construction is a tight labor
market in the face of lower immigration.
So, there are some pockets of the labor
market, construction being a prime
example, where it's really a supply
story, others not so much. And so, this
is not a broad-based one-stroke kind of
labor market. the granularity, the
details matter.
>> So for construction workers, are they
the ones that are switching and actually
getting pay rises? And for basically
everyone else, they're moving because
they don't like their boss.
>> Or
>> that's what it sounds like.
>> Or maybe they're just moving because of
family reasons. Look, construction,
>> that's a better story.
>> That's a better story.
>> That's a better story. Um, yes,
construction, we actually track that for
job switchers. It's about 11% boost for
construction workers. And I would like
to contrast that for with leisure and
hospitality where you actually see
negative job gains from switching. So it
really is such
>> meaning people are taking a pay cut to
switch.
>> That's right. That's right. It's a
sector with a high turnover. So
employers tend to reward uh loyalty and
tenure um rather than job switching.
>> So it really depends on your occupation
on why you're switching, how much money
you made. So what do you call this labor
market?
I call it a stagnant labor market. Um
I'd like to see more dynamism. It's also
a highly concentrated labor market. Most
of the private sector job gains are
coming from one sector. Um and it's on
the flip side in some ways a stable
labor market because we're not seeing a
drop in uh wage growth. In fact, we are
seeing wage growth stabilize at higher
levels. Now, that is a double-edged
sword because it kind of puts a floor on
inflation if you're seeing pretty robust
wage gains, and that's what we're
seeing. So, it's a complicated.
>> You'd be miserable when you're leaving
for less money, right?
>> Yeah. I was going to say that is like
that's bad.
>> That is that is bad. We got some
management issues if that's the case.
>> That means you really hate your boss or
you have to for family reasons like
you're moving a state or city. I don't
know.
>> That's a pretty brutal assessment of
things. Needle, I wanted to talk about
AI as well. It's a big big feature of
the conversation at the moment. We've
all seen the headlines. There was one
interview in the Financial Times where
the Microsoft AI chief, you're smiling
because I'm sure you read it as well,
said that we could wipe out in 12 to 18
months all white collar jobs. What are
you actually seeing in the data? What's
happening at the moment?
>> Well, we're not seeing a wipeout of
white collar jobs from AI. In fact,
we're seeing something a little bit
different. And we've partnered with uh
our partners at Stanford in order to do
this kind of research. And when you look
at AI exposed fields, so think of
software developers or customer service
reps, what you're seeing is a takeoff in
employment growth in complicated jobs.
It's really those early career jobs,
those jobs where it's easy to automate
that you're seeing a decline in
employment. So it's not about
replacement. It's really in my view
about leveling up the workforce to
capture the technology because over the
long run we might see some growth in the
short term with just efficiency gains
but long run growth takes people and
productivity. You have to have both. And
so this is a prime time for upscaling of
the workforce.
>> This sounds super insightful and maybe a
little bit more constructive than what
we have heard. Yes. And some of the
warnings we've seen over the past few
weeks.
>> And it has been scary though because we
not just heard it from Microsoft but
this came out months ago. Remember
Anthropic was saying white collar jobs
especially entry level if you're leaving
college there are going to be no jobs
for you. Neil is saying the reality is a
little bit more mundane less dramatic.
Might be a better job for you. No more
just summarizing documents. Really
you're going to be able to skip that
grunt work step into something that is
more valuable to the company and more
hopefully engaging to the spin. I know.
I like this. It's a nice way to sort of
round out the program. A better
headline. Nita. Thank you. Nita
Richardson there of ADP. Big downside
surprise on jobless claims, some quirks
and distortions in the trade balance
data. I want to sit on that just for a
beat. Mike McKe still with us. Mike, I
want to come back to you if we can. Have
you got an explanation for some wild
moves we're seeing in the trade numbers?
>> We do have a partial explanation, John,
and it's the same thing we have seen in
the previous couple of months. It's
gold, the gnomes of Zurich moving gold
in and out of the country in terms of
exports from the United States. Uh I
mentioned exports decreased 5.5 billion
and of that even more than the total net
uh $7.1 billion worth of gold left the
United States and 1 uh.8 billion in gold
came into the United States. So a big
trade in gold which does not go into
GDP. So that will affect some of these
uh numbers. But we could also note that
in terms of the imports capital goods
increased 5.6 6 billion led by computer
accessories and telecommunication
equipment. So looks like AI the buildout
of the data centers is uh leading to a
lot of imports in the US uh because
consumer goods uh imports uh fell by
three and a half billion.
>> Mike, it's so difficult to make
forecasts. But if we could go back to
April 2nd, that first week of April when
the president unveiled all of these
tariffs and then went to China in a much
more aggressive way in the month after,
if I'd said to you, Mike, that at the
end of the year we'd end up with a
deficit this wide and China would still
have a trade surplus that big, who would
have believed me?
>> I think a lot of people might have
believed you because a lot of economists
didn't think that tariffs would
accomplish a whole lot. uh what they
have done is shifted around the mix of
imports and exports. So while we haven't
seen a huge decline in the trade
deficit, we've seen uh this volatility
month after month in in it and uh that's
been the hard thing to track and as you
say it's very hard to make predictions.
Uh what was it Yogi Bar said? Especially
about the future.
>> There you go. Something like that. Mike,
thank you sir. Mike McKe with the latest
on the data. Mike, thank you sir. one of
the largest in data back to 1960, a
fullear deficit of just north of 900
billion US dollars.
>> Yeah, and we know that this president
doesn't like deficits. So, that's going
to be a problem potentially when it
comes to the state of the union.
Jonathan,
>> that's the latest on the trade front.
Equities at a moment on the S&P negative
by about a third of 1%. With an update
on the markets and news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief, Yhara's back for
more. Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. Recapping the data we just
got. Jobless claims coming in at 206,000
for last week. That's well below
estimates of 225,000 and down from the
prior week. The trade deficit, as you
all were just discussing for December,
topping $70 billion, significantly
higher than expectations for $55.5
billion and above the figures from the
prior month. Meanwhile, the Justice
Department sounding the alarm on a
potential Warner Brothers Discovery
sale. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that antitrust lawyers fear a
deal with Netflix or Paramount could
have a lasting impact on cinemas. Coming
at 12:30 p.m. Eastern, Btax Ed Ledllo
will be speaking to Netflix coco Ted
Sarandos.
And Morgan Stanley slashing fees on its
newly acquired trading platform Equity
Zen. Trading fees will fall from 5% to 2
and a.5% in a move set to undercut
rivals as it aims to get ahead in the
private share market. This approach set
to target high demand shares like open
AI and SpaceX. That's Bloomberg brief.
Johnara,
>> thank you. Thanks for this morning. Up
next on the program, we'll catch up with
Dan Flax of Newberger Burman as AI
concerns continue to weigh on Wall
Street. Plus, Danny's back with your
morning mover as cler shares falling as
credit provisions surge. That stock is
down by 16%. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
We are more concerned with AI disruption
and the impact on the loan market in the
near to medium-term than we are on over
supply from the hyperscalers and
potential for supply indigestion. That
in my view is a medium to longerterm
concern or no concern at all to be
candid.
>> That was Matthew Mish of UBS. Fantastic
on the debt market and the amount of
supply we're going to see from the
hyperscalers and the part of the market
he's more concerned about. Your equity
market at the moment looks like this
slightly soft negative down. It's lower
by a third of 1% going into the opening
bell on the NASDAQ 100 by 0.4%. Lots of
single name stories out there. Let's get
you some morning movers. Danny has more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Walmart, the big company mover
this morning, giving a guidance that was
lower than expectations, but something
has changed. This stock was originally
down and down sharply after those
earnings with the CEO that described the
macro environment as fluid and dynamic.
Now prices are little changed. Perhaps
it is the expectation that Walmart
typically gives a conservative outlook
to start the year and then just ups it
as we go on. Certainly the sellside
commentary has revolved around that. So
Walmart shares now little change again a
big recovery from them. Then there's
CLA. These shares are not little change.
They are falling quite a bit nearly 16%
swinging to a loss for the fourth
quarter because of surging costs put
aside or provisions put aside for
souring loans. Their uh loss provisions
59% higher than the year prior. So a not
so good read on the consumer from Clara.
Wayfair also getting hit after their
earnings. They actually largely beat
expectations. But William Blair, for
example, the analyst over there saying
even though you saw that headline number
exceed expectations, the buy side
actually had higher expectations for
Wayfair. They also dropped in terms of
monthly uh monthly users on their
platform. So shares are down uh about 11
and a third% in the pre-market. John,
>> hey Danny, thanks for the update.
Looking forward to the show. Danny will
take it away in about 11 minutes time
and guide you into the opening bow.
Heading into the opening bow. Looking
forward the trading diary looks like
this for the day ahead and into the
weekend. At 9:00 a.m. Eastern time, the
president hosting a board of peace
meeting. 4 p.m. the president speaking
on the economy in Georgia. Friday, CP PC
and UMIC sentiment plus a possible and
we have stressed possible all week given
recent experience a possible Supreme
Court decision on the president's
tariffs. And for a sneak peek of next
week on Tuesday, the president
delivering his state of the union
address.
>> Really important and actually what's
going to happen tomorrow potential
Supreme Court decision could impact what
the president says on Tuesday with the
state of the union. You brought up a
great point. the justices go and the
president usually this is scripted. I
could see him weaving a bit maybe
calling out the Supreme Court depending
on what they do tomorrow if they come
out decision tomorrow. We've been here
before.
>> Big if and do they have to manage the
optics of next week and avoid just that?
>> Yeah, potentially they might have to.
And I you know those approve those State
of the Union speeches final finishing
touches will be done the the night
before especially this is what we're
talking about domestically with tariffs.
What about the fact that we're seeing
these headlines from Axios from the
Telegraph that the president potentially
we're at the closest moment in his
second term to making a decision on
striking Iran
>> with crude well above 70 north of 71
through much of this morning on Brent.
Let's leave it there on energy. Let's
turn to tech investor concerns over
heavy capex causing sharp stock swings
in recent weeks. Dan Flax of Newberger
Burman writing the capex debate is
likely to remain an overhang in the near
term but we think the aggressive level
of of investment makes sense for some
companies. Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, welcome to the program. For many,
for some, this is a great contradiction.
How can this technology be this
disruptive and upend software stocks?
And at the same time, the money being
spent by the hyperscalers is said to be
a waste of money. Dan, can both be true?
>> Good morning, John. Great to be with you
as always. There are elements of
disruption that are permeating the
entire technology sector. Certainly in
software the questions around what
models from the likes of open AI and
anthropic will will do to those
businesses we actually see opportunities
in the software sector and I'll take
Microsoft which I think is executing
very well they're they are infusing more
capabilities agents into their uh
software offerings when we speak to
customers they look at Microsoft as an
even more strategic partner uh than it's
been in the past given the opportunities
and then on the hyperscaler capex if I
look at Google spending 180 billion
you're seeing the results John you're
seeing a a search business they're
transforming uh with AI overview their
cloud business is surging and so I
expect these crossurrens to remain uh
the focus in the near term but I expect
as we as we move through this year the
market will see the returns it'll see
businesses like Google like Microsoft
becoming more durable which can help
drive share price outperformance in my
view
>> Dan let's talk about other beneficiaries
and companies that just don't seem to be
working right now. Stocks more
specifically, Nvidia flat on the year,
down on the month, even though we're
seeing these massive numbers come out of
the hyperscalers. What gives?
The market's worried about a level of
both deceleration in Nvidia's business
given just how strong it's been, and of
course, competition remains fierce. And
so, I like Nvidia at current levels.
What we're seeing is that they're
executing incredibly well on their
product roadmap with Blackwell ramping
as we speak, Reuben uh launching later
this year. And so really the the the
power or the magic if you like of Nvidia
is both the chips, the systems, and then
the software. And so they are really a
platform company that's laying the
foundation for others to build upon. And
so so the vibrancy of their ecosystem,
John, in my view, sets the company up
very well. So yes, short-term concerns
about growth and of course remember that
there are capacity constraints. So I
like the outlook for Nvidia in the year
ahead
>> and they report next Wednesday. How high
is the bar for them to clear?
>> Uh the bar is high but the and I would
expect that they're going to beat
expectations but the challenge for them
is is that there isn't enough supply and
at the same time their questions around
China and China has has been derisked uh
from their numbers. the market's going
to worry about the push and pull around
the competitive forces uh around a level
of deceleration and and and that I I
expect to be to be the dynamic into the
spring. I do think though as we get more
visibility on Reuben later this year and
really this this continued broadening of
their growth drivers uh as you see
opportunities longer term for Nvidia in
areas like robotics as one example that
that will help propel the stock assuming
again continued strong execution um on
on their product cycles which which we
anticipate given the strong track record
of of Jensen and and the leadership team
there.
>> It's quite a track record that's for
sure. Dan, it's good to see you as
always. Thanks for jumping on for us.
Dan Flax there of Newberger Burman.
Nvidia trading a bit softer in the
pre-market actually down on the month
and flat on the year so far even with
the numbers we've seen from the
hyperscalers which have been absolutely
humongous.
>> Absolutely humongous when it comes to
the hyperscalers and the news we have
out today about what's going on with
open AI and drawing in hundred billion
dollars. It's just outrageous how much
these companies are spending right now.
What he was interesting is what he's
talking about there is also this
question mark regarding China. What can
they actually sell into China? How much
has their appetite have been for the age
200? And also, where is China on the AI
race? There's this recent letter Open
AAI wrote to the China Select Committee
saying Deep Seek is free riding on their
technology. A lot of questions are going
to be asked this year about where that's
going in terms of Deepseek 2.0.
>> Before we go, just a beat on the data
from 25 minutes ago. That is a very,
very strong decent jobless claims read.
for all the fears about surging claims
and unemployment. 206 on claims the
estimate 225
>> and actually talking to Nila Richardson
it's so interesting when she talks about
this stagnant right now labor force what
you have is basically individuals only
moving because basically personal issues
and if you want a pay raise you got to
go into construction or mining.
>> Yeah. Health care at the moment is where
the boom is.
>> Yep. Only one.
>> That's the story behind the numbers of
the last 12 months or so. Coming up
tomorrow, George Canas of MUFG joins us.
Kathy Jones of Schwab, Greg Battle of
BMP Parabar, Kathy Boschantic of
Nationwide from New York City. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.